---
policy_id: "113-8"
title: "113 8 113 8 113 8 113 8 113 8 113 8 113 8 Fraud Referrals"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\113\113-8_113_8_113_8_113_8_113_8_113_8_113_8_fraud_referrals.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

113-8          FRAUD
REFERRALS

The QAQuality Assessment
Reviewer may recommend referral to the Fraud Unit. During the review process,
if the QAQuality Assessment Reviewer finds
that the recipient of benefits or a childcare provider receiving subsidy
willfully and intentionally provided false information or verifications
to the caseworker, the QAQuality Assessment
Reviewer marks the "Fraud Referral Recommended" on the Q-Form.

Caseworkers will consider fraud referral
recommendations during the discussion of the case. In some cases, caseworkers
might recommend the fraud referral. If the CAPSCorrective Action Planning Spreadsheets
agrees a fraud referral is warranted, the staff will complete and submit
the Fraud Allegation Report form online at <https://fcm.i-sight.com/external/dhsscase/new>.
The staff will need to complete all of the required fields, which include
the client's first and last name, phone number, and allegation details.
Any supporting document can be uploaded by using "Add File"
on the form. Once all the fields are completed, select the Submit button.

If during the QAQuality Assessment
review process the household fails or refuses to cooperate and the reviewer
is not able to complete the review, the reviewer may submit a Fraud Allegation
Report online to the Fraud Unit. This could occur if the reviewer has
discovered the client misrepresented circumstance such as undisclosed
income, resources, household composition, or provided false information
or verification to the QAQuality Assessment
reviewer.

Note:

An overpayment claim is not sent to the Claims Unit if the caseworker or
a QAQuality Assessment Reviewer submits
a Fraud Referral.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](113-7_quality_assessment_reviewer_contact_with_the_caseworker.md) |  | [Next Section](113-9_q-form_process.md) |
|  |  | [2020-03 (12/20)](../transmittals/transmittal_2020-03.md) |