---
policy_id: "copy_of_mc__29_(3_13)"
title: "MC #29 (3/13)"
parent: "Adult Long-Term Care"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Adult Long-Term Care\transmittals\copy_of_mc__29_(3_13).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "506"
  - "533"
  - "534"
  - "560"
  - "575"
---

ADLTC - Alaska Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health
and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC  #29

MANUAL:  Aged, Disabled
and Long Term Care Medicaid Eligibility Manual

DATE:  March 8, 2013

We have updated the Program Standards and Pickle Amendment Chart for
2013.  We have also updated the chapter on TEFRA cases to more accurately
reflect the current process.

Highlights
of these revisions are described below.  If you have any questions
please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at 465-3382 or
e-mail [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW
OF CHANGES

[MS
506 O](../../506/506_medicare_buy_in.md#506_J_SOCIAL_SECURITY_OFFICES)  SOCIAL SECURITY OFFICES

- Corrected
  contact information for the Juneau Social Security Office

[MS **533**](../../533/533_tefra.md) **DISABLED
CHILDREN AT HOME (**[***TEFRA***](javascript:TextPopup(this))*Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility
Act, P.L. 97-248***)**

- Updated chapter to more accurately reflect
  the current TEFRATax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act, P.L. 97-248
  process.

[MS 534](../../534/534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in.md)
WORKING
DISABLED MEDICAID BUY-IN

- Updated
  examples with 2013 FPGFederal Poverty Guidelines
  amounts and APAAdult Public Assistance Standards.

[MS
560 E](../../560/560_hcb_waiver.md#560_E__HCB_WAIVER_REFERRALS_AND_INTERAGENCY_COMMUNICATIONS)  HCB WAIVER REFERRALS AND INTERAGENCY COMMUNICATIONS

- Updated section to clarify DSDS waiver
  denials are sent to the LTC Unit, not the LTC Coordinator.

[MS
575](../../575/575_breast_and_cervical_cancer.md#575_B.______APPLICATION)  BREAST AND CERVICAL CANCER MEDICAID

- Updated application address to remove
  Breast and Cervical Cancer Coordinator and replace with LTC Unit as
  there is no longer a coordinator for this program.

[ADDENDUM 1](../../addenda/addendum_1.md)  NEEDS STANDARDS

- Updated
  Needs Standards tables for current FPGFederal Poverty Guidelines
- Updated
  Pickle Amendment table.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](copy_of_mc__28_(1_13).md) |  | [Next Section](mc___30_(07_13).md) |
|  |  |  |