---
policy_id: "mc_23_(12_23)"
title: "MC #23 (12/23)"
parent: "MAGI Medicaid Eligibility"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\MAGI Medicaid Eligibility\transmittals\mc_23_(12_23).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "810"
  - "815"
  - "816-1"
  - "833"
---

Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC #23

MANUAL:  MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid program

DATE: December 1, 2023

This year Social Security announced a 3.2% [COLA](mc__17_(12_21).md#)Cost of Living Allowance increase that effects the Parent/Caretaker Relative and Under 21 Medicaid categories starting in January of 2024. We have also made several changes to clarify existing policy as a result of policy questions or suggestions from the field. An overview of the changes are listed below.

If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[810](../../810_social_security_enumeration/810_social_security_enumeration.md)   Social Security Enumeration

- Removed reference to Addendum 7 and replaced with reference to new location of the Social Security Enumeration Letter Template.

[815(D)](../../815_residents_of_institutions/815_residents_of_institutions.md#815_D._______PENAL_INSTITUTION)   Penal Institution

- Clarified that we cannot deny or terminate Medicaid benefits solely because an individual is incarcerated.

[816-1(C)](../../816_magi_medicaid_categories/816-1_magi_category_eligibility_factors.md#816-1_C._CHILDREN_UNDER_THE_AGE_OF_19)   Children Under the Age of 19

- Removed incarceration in a penal institution as a reason to end the continuous eligibility period.

[833(A)](../../833_hospital_presumptive_eligibility/833_hosptial_presumptive_eligibility_determination.md#833_a.__Eligibility)  Eligibility

- Added revised [MIBW](#)Medical Insurance Budget Worksheet Subtype Worksheet to include the Parent/Caretaker Relative and Under 21 Standards as of January 2024.

[Addendum 1](../../addenda/addendum-1_magi_medicaid_income_standards.md)   MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid Income Standards

- Updated the Parent and Caretaker Relatives and Under 21 standards due to the 3.2% COLACost of Living Allowance increase.

[Addendum 3](../../addenda/addendum-3_countable_and_excluded_income_for_magi_medicaid.md)   Countable and Excluded Income For MAGI Medicaid

- Added Educational Income not funded under the Title IV Higher Education Act and Bureau of Indian Affairs Assistance.
- Added link to MAGI MS 819(D)13.

Addendum 7   Social Security Enumeration Request Letter Template

- Removed addendum 7 so it is not available to the public.