---
policy_id: "mc_65(04_24)"
title: "MC #65 (04/24)"
parent: "Adult Long-Term Care"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Adult Long-Term Care\transmittals\mc_65(04_24).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "512"
  - "534"
  - "575"
  - "580"
---

ADLTC - Alaska Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC  #65

MANUAL:  Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Eligibility Manual

DATE:  April 1, 2024

We have updated the 2024 Federal Poverty Level guidelines for income eligibility effective April 1, 2024. We have also updated other sections that use Federal Poverty Level guidelines for income eligibility.

This manual change also consists of several technical changes or clarifications as a result of suggestions from the field. Highlights of these revisions are described below. 

If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[512](../../512_social_security_enumeration/512_ssn_required.md)     Social Security Enumeration 

- Removed SharePoint reference.

[534(K)](../../534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in/534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in.md#534_K__EXAMPLE_OF_AN_ELIGIBILITY_DETERMINATION)     Example of an Eligibility Determination

- Updated examples with 2024 Federal Poverty Level Changes.

[534(M)](../../534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in/534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in.md#534_M__EXAMPLE_OF_AN_ELIGIBILITY_DETERMINATION_WITH_A_MEDICAID)     Example of an Eligibility Determination With a Medicaid Qualifying Trust

- Updated examples with 2024 Federal Poverty Level Changes.

[575](../../575_alaska_breast_and_cervical_screening_assistance_program/575_breast_and_cervical_cancer.md)   Breast and Cervical Cancer

- Changed name to Alaska Breast and Cervical Screening Assistance Program (AK B+C).
- Changed the staff contact at DHCS.

[580](../../580_medicare_savings_programs/580_medicare_premium_assistance.md)      Medicare Savings Program

- Updated [QMB](mc__62_(04_23).md#)Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries and [SLMB](mc__62_(04_23).md#)Specified Low Income Medicare Beneficiaries resource limits.

[Addendum 1](../../addenda/addendum_1.md)

- Updated with 2024 Federal Poverty Level Changes.
- Updated [QMB](mc__62_(04_23).md#)Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries and [SLMB](mc__62_(04_23).md#)Specified Low Income Medicare Beneficiaries resource limits.
- Updated Pickle Chart.