---
policy_id: "mc_79_(09_24)"
title: "Transmittal 2024-03 (12/24)"
parent: "Heating Assistance Program"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Heating Assistance Program\previous_transmittals\mc_79_(09_24).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "3000-2"
  - "3001"
  - "3001-2"
---

HAP Policy Manual (new)

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: 2024-03

MANUAL: Heating Assistance Program

DATE: December 2, 2024

Sections of the Heating Assistance Program Policy Manual have been revised in order to incorporate new policy, clarify existing policy, and align policies within our division's policy manuals.

If you have questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov.](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov)

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 3000-2](../3000/3000-2_definitions.md)          DEFINITIONS

- Revised signature requirement to allow for digital and handwritten signatures created on an electronic device (finger/stylus to screen).
- Added "Acceptable Application" to the definition terms.
- Updated the term "Identifiable Application" to reference [HAP](#)Heating Assistance Program [MS 3001-2B](../3001/3001-2_the_application_form.md#3001-2_B._WHAT_IS_AN_IDENTIFIABLE_APPLICATION_FORM?).

[MS 3001](../3001/3001_application_process.md)             APPLICATION PROCESS

- Updated the application process to align with [DPA](#)Division of Public Assistance's other programs.
- Added note outlining the application methods.

[MS 3001-2](../3001/3001-2_the_application_form.md)          THE APPLICATION FORM

- Updated the application form section to align with [DPA](#)Division of Public Assistance's other programs.

[Addendum A](../addendum/addendum_a.md)     COMMUNITY LISTING

- Revised date from FY2023 to FY2025.
- Updated the community listing based on the new [TCC](#)Tanana Chiefs Conference [MOA](#)Memorandum of Agreement that is effective 10/01/2024.

[Addendum B](../addendum/addendum_b.md)     [HAP](#)Heating Assistance Program TRIBAL PROVIDERS

- Added note that [AVCP](#)Association of Village Council Presidents does not accept applications via email.

[Addendum G](../addendum/addendum_g.md)     INCOME GRID

- Added native dividend exemption.