---
policy_id: "mc__54_(09_20)"
title: "MC #54 (09/20)"
parent: "Adult Long-Term Care"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Adult Long-Term Care\transmittals\mc__54_(09_20).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "520"
  - "534"
  - "575"
  - "580"
---

ADLTC - Alaska Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC  #54

MANUAL:  Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Eligibility Manual

DATE:  September 1, 2020

We are making several changes to incorporate new policy, clarifying existing policy, and align policies within our policy manuals. Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the result of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[520(B)](../../520/520_elig_req_apa_policy.md#520_B__U_S__CITIZENSHIP_AND_ELIGIBLE_ALIEN_STATUS)        U.S.United States CITIZENSHIP AND ELIGIBLE ALIEN STATUS

- Updated section to align with MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income [MS 808-6](http://dpaweb.hss.state.ak.us/manuals/MAGI2/808_us_citizenship_and_eligible_alien_status/808-6_proof_of_united_states_citizenship_and_qualified_alien_status.htm) as the HAVRHealth Analytics & Vital Records (BVSBureau of Vital Statistics) data match has ended.

[534](../../534/534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in.md)              WORKING DISABLED MEDICAID BUY-IN

- Clarified when calculating the unearned income test, apply APAAdult Public Assistance related methodology or 300% Special Long Term Care income limit depending on what category of Medicaid eligibility is based on.

[575](../../575/575_breast_and_cervical_cancer.md)              BREAST AND CERVICAL CANCER MEDICAID

- Explained what credible coverage means.
- Added renewals are required yearly.

[580](../../580/580_medicare_premium_assistance.md)              MEDICARE SAVINGS PROGRAMS

- Updated who is eligible section to include MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income caretaker category.