---
policy_id: "mc__3_(04_19)"
title: "MC #3 (04/19)"
parent: "Work Services"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Work Services\transmittals\mc__3_(04_19).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "1003-1"
  - "1005-3"
  - "1007-11"
  - "1012-4"
  - "1018-6"
---

Work Services Procedure Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #3

MANUAL: Work Services Procedure Manual

DATE: April 1, 2019

We are making several changes to clarify existing policy as a result of suggestions from the Field and Work Services providers.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Work Services Policy team at WSTA@alaska.gov or [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 1003-1 C](../1003/1003-1_performance_measures.md#1003-1_C._PERFORMANCE_MEASURES_DEFINITIONS)      PERFORMANCE MEASURE DEFINITIONS

- Added language that clarifies penalties are excluded from the Job Development performance rate.

[MS 1005-3](../1005/1005-3_community_(cwe)_and_business_work_experience_(bwe).md)      COMMUNITY AND BUSINESS WORK EXPERIENCE FORMS

- Clarified site specific Human Resource paperwork required for State of Alaska CWE placements specifically and other Community Work Experiences.

[MS 1007-11](../1007/1007-11_determination_to_further_reduce_assistance.md)      DETERMINATION TO FURTHER REDUCE ASSISTANCE

- Added a note clarifying specifically what information is needed for CLNO versus CANO when it comes to sensitive information.
- Added links to Admin Manual sections 109-3 and 109-10.

[MS 1012-4](../1012/1012-4_refusing_cash_during_a_job_start.md)      REFUSED CASH

- Added guidance on how Work Services Providers are to notify the DPA Eligibility Team when a client is placed in an OJT or Job Start (Refused Cash) status.
- Added links to Admin Manual section 109-10 and WSPM Manual section 1005-5.

[MS 1018-6](../1018/1018-6_reserved.md)      GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

- Added link to WSPM section 1003-1 B.
- Added new subsections clarifying what is and what is not a valid grievance based on performance measure definitions and what is not a valid grievance.