---
policy_id: "mc__53_(10_16)"
title: "MC #53 (10/16)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__53_(10_16).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "740-3"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #53

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: October 1, 2016

The Alaska Temporary Assistance heating and non-heating utility standards change effective October 2016. The Eligibility Information System (EIS) will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning October 2016. We have also updated the [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual to reflect [MAGI](#)Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid verbiage from the outdated Family Medicaid terminology.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 740-3 B](../740/740-3_other_public_assistance_programs.md#740-3_B._TRANSITIONAL_MEDICAID)      Transitional Medicaid

- Updated verbiage to [MAGI](#)Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid from outdated Family Medicaid terminology.
- Removed the link to the [MAGI](#)Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid Manual. Link will be provided when new MAGI Manual posts.

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      Temporary Assistance Income and Payment Standards

- Updated the heating and non-heating utility standards for FFY 2017.
- Updated the "Wade Hampton Census Area" to the "Kusilvak Census Area" per the July 1, 2015 official name change announced by Governor Walker.