---
policy_id: "mc__60_(09_22)"
title: "MC #60 (09/22)"
parent: "Adult Long-Term Care"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Adult Long-Term Care\transmittals\mc__60_(09_22).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "528"
  - "530"
  - "554"
  - "570"
---

ADLTC - Alaska Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC  #60

MANUAL:  Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Eligibility Manual

DATE:  September 1, 2022

We are making several changes to incorporate new policy, clarifying existing policy, and align policies within our policy manuals. Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the result of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[528 A](../../528/528_processing_cases_with_trusts.md#528_A_INITIAL_CASE_PROCESSING)        INITIAL CASE PROCESSING

- Revised the trust communication process now that the division has electronic document management.

[530 C](../../530/530_ssi_and_apa_related_categories.md#530_C._USE_OF_THE_REFUSED_CASH_MEDICAID_SUBTYPE)        USE OF THE REFUSED CASH MEDICAID SUBTYPE

- Added a note clarifying that the Refused Cash category should not be used for individuals residing in a [LTC](#)Long Term Care facility or receiving [HCB](#)Home and Community-Based Waiver services.

[554](../../554/554_transfer_of_assets.md)           TRANSFER OF ASSETS

- Revised section to clarify that a caseworker must review for a possible TOA penalty at every renewal to ensure that the individual did not make a non-allowable transfer in the prior 12 months.

[570 C](../../570/570_post_eligibility_and_coc.md#570_C__INDIVIDUALS_NOT_SUBJECT_TO_COST_OF_CARE)       INDIVIDUALS NOT SUBJECT TO COST OF CARE

- Clarified that individuals residing in a LTC facility are not exempt from cost of care and added a link to 570(B).

[ADDENDUM 3](../../addenda/addendum_3.md)     COUNTABLE AND EXCLUDED INCOME FOR ADLTC MEDICAID

- Added new Addendum outlining basic countable and excluded income for ADLTC Medicaid.

ADDENDUM 9     SOCIAL SECURITY ENUMERATION REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE

- Revised signature line by removing "Eligibility Technician" as the Social Security Administration will not accept the form if it isn't signed by a member of management. Also, updated phone number to the VCC.