---
policy_id: "mc__35_(12_11)"
title: "MC #35 (12/11)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__35_(12_11).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "780-1"
  - "780-3"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #35

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: December 1, 2011

This year Social Security announced a [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase effective January 1, 2012. We have updated the Alaska Temporary Assistance income eligibility and shelter allowance standards to reflect the annual Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) adjustments in Social Security benefits. The new standards are effective beginning with the benefit month of January 2012.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at 465-3382 or email [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 780-1 G](../780/780-1_definitions.md#780-1_G._RATABLE_REDUCTION)      Ratable Reduction

- Updates the percentage of need payable and ratable reduction amounts for 2012.

[MS 780-3](../780/780-3_calculating_the_payment_amount.md)      Calculating the Payment Amount

- Updates the examples of payment calculations to reflect to 2012 cost of living adjustment.

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      Temporary Assistance Income and Payment Standards

- Updates the income eligibility standards and maximum shelter allowances for 2012. Corresponding forms have been updated on eForms and the DPAweb.