---
policy_id: "mc__56_(09_17)"
title: "MC #56 (09/17)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__56_(09_17).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "711-1"
  - "740-2"
  - "760-2"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #56

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: September 1, 2017

The Alaska Temporary Assistance Program (ATAP) heating and non-heating utility standards change effective October 2017. The Eligibility Information System (EIS) will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning October 2017. We have also updated the [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program manual based off of clarification from the field and other support units.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 711-1](../711/711-1_the_temporary_assistance_unit.md)      The Temporary Assistance Unit

- Removed the sentence that allowed for a step-parent to be included in the assistance unit if the biological parent was excluded due to receiving [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income/[APA](#)Adult Public Assistance.

MS 730-5 A      Core Work Activities

- Updated the limitations for job search and work readiness to align with federal regulation.

[MS 740-2 C](../740/740-2_pass_ii_child_care.md#740-2_C._REFERRAL_FOR_PASS_II)      Referral for [PASS](#)Parents Achieving Self-Sufficiency II

- Updated the hyperlink to [PASS](#)Parents Achieving Self-Sufficiency II/III child care providers throughout the State of Alaska.

MS 756-7 B      Deeming the Income of the Parent of a Minor Parent

- Updated the information in subsection 4 to align with manual section 756-7 A (4).

[MS 760-2 D](../760/760-2_work_incentive_deductions.md#760-2_D._DENIAL_OF_WORK_INCENTIVE_DEDUCTIONS)      Denial of Work Incentive Deductions

- Updated the hyperlinks from 723-5 to sections 722-4 and 723-1

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      Temporary Assistance Income and Payment Standards

- Updated the heating and non-heating utility standards for FFY 2018.