---
policy_id: "mc__50_(12_15)"
title: "MC #50 (12/15)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__50_(12_15).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "722"
  - "758"
  - "780-1"
  - "780-3"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #50

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: December 1, 2015

The Social Security announced that there will be no COLA increase effective January 1, 2016. We have updated the Alaska Temporary Assistance Program income eligibility and shelter allowance standards to reflect the year change, but there has been no change in the ratable reduction, percentage of need payable, need standards or maximum payments. The [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program manual was also updated based on feedback from the field and Tribal [TANF](#)Temporary Assistance to Needy Families providers. The Alaskan Native Villages of Evansville, Karluk, and Manley Hot Springs were added to Addendum 1, effective December of 2015, based on requests from the TCC and KANA, which were confirmed by the Dept. of Interior, Alaska Dept. of Labor and American Community Survey.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 722](../722/722_job_refusal_or_job_quit.md)      Job Refusal or Job Quit

- Removed the word "may" and replaced with the word "is" for clarity.

[MS 758](../758/758_unearned_income.md)      Unearned Income

- Added language to the first bullet in the section, which clarifies that [RSDI](#)Retirement Survivors Disability Insurance benefits are countable unearned income.

[MS 780-1 G](../780/780-1_definitions.md#780-1_G._RATABLE_REDUCTION)      Ratable Reduction

- Updates the year for the percentage of need payable and ratable reduction amounts.

[MS 780-3](../780/780-3_calculating_the_payment_amount.md)      Calculating the Payment Amount

- Updates the examples of payment calculations to reflect the year 2016.

[Addendum 1](../addenda/addendum_1_-_exempt_alaska_native_villages.md)      Exempt Alaska Native Villages

- The Alaska Native Villages of Evansville, Karluk, and Manley Hot Springs were added effective December of 2015.

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      Temporary Assistance Income and Payment Standards

- Updates the income and eligibility standards and maximum shelter allowances to reflect the year 2016.