---
policy_id: "mc__30_(04_26)"
title: "MC #30 (04/26)"
parent: "MAGI Medicaid Eligibility"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\MAGI Medicaid Eligibility\transmittals\mc__30_(04_26).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "816-1"
  - "818"
  - "833"
---

Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC #30

MANUAL:  MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid program

DATE: April 1, 2026

We have updated the income standards for the MAGI Medicaid categories that are effected by the change in Federal Poverty Guidelines that is effective April 1, 2026. We have also made several changes to clarify existing policy as a result of policy questions or suggestions from the field. An overview of the changes are listed below.

If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov.](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov)

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

ENTIRE MANUAL

[816-1(B)](../816_magi_medicaid_categories/816-1_magi_category_eligibility_factors.md#816-1_B._PREGNANT_WOMEN)    Pregnant Women

- Rephrased section to clarify that verification of pregnancy is not required unless multiple babies are expected or pregnancy is questionable.

[818](../818_magi_medicaid_income/818_magi_medicaid_income.md)    [MAGI](previous_transmittals/mc__27_(04_25).md#)Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid Income

- Updated dependent tax filing thresholds.

[833(C)](../833_hospital_presumptive_eligibility/833_hosptial_presumptive_eligibility_determination.md#833_C._Subtypes)    Subtypes 

- Updated the income standards due to the Federal Poverty Guidelines change effective April 1, 2026.

[Addendum 1](../addenda/addendum-1_magi_medicaid_income_standards.md)    [MAGI](previous_transmittals/mc__27_(04_25).md#)Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid Income Standards

- Updated the income standards due to the Federal Poverty Guidelines change effective April 1, 2026.

[Addendum 4](../addenda/addendum-4_magi_medicaid_income_deductions.md)    [MAGI](#)Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid Income Deductions

- Revised section to include IRS changes to deductions.