---
policy_id: "mc__32_(04_11)"
title: "MC #32 (04/11)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__32_(04_11).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "760-2"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #32

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: April 27, 2011

On April 1, 2011, we changed policy for Temporary Assistance and Family Medicaid to allow new household members entering a recipient household to be considered recipients. This enabled them to receive the earned income deduction of $150 + 33% instead of the $90 disregard allowed applicants. Effective immediately, we can no longer allow the higher deduction for new members entering the Temporary Assistance household.

We must reverse this decision because [EIS](#)Eligibility Information System does not allow for processing of the $150 + 33% earned income deduction for new members entering Temporary Assistance recipient households. We are working with System Operations to find a solution to this problem. Until that time, we must revert to the previous policy which allowed a $90 work expense deduction for new members entering a Temporary Assistance recipient household.

Highlights to policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at 465-3382 or email [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 760-2 B](../760/760-2_work_incentive_deductions.md#760-2_B._AMOUNTS_AND_LIMITS_OF_WORK_INCENTIVE_DEDUCTIONS)      Amounts and Limits of Work Incentive Deductions

- Removed new policy issued April 1, 2011 to treat new members entering recipient household as recipients. [EIS](#)Eligibility Information System does not currently allow the earned income deduction of $150 + 33% for new household members.