---
policy_id: "mc__74_(04_23)"
title: "MC #74 (04/23)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__74_(04_23).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "705-3"
  - "718-1"
  - "759-6"
  - "780-19"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #74

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: April 3, 2023

The self-employment annualization table has been updated based on changes in the Federal Poverty Guidelines (FPG) for Alaska, effective April 1, 2023.

Highlights of all the policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 705-3 G](../705/705-3_the_interview.md#705-3_G._DO_ANY_DISQUALIFICATIONS_OR_PENALTIES_APPLY?)      DO ANY DISQUALIFICATIONS OR PENALTIES APPLY?

- Removed references to when a new application may or may not be needed after case closure, as its presence causes confusion as to when penalties should be imposed.

[MS 718-1](../718/718-1_social_security_enumeration_requirements.md)      SOCIAL SECURITY ENUMERATION REQUIREMENTS

- Clarified that there are some classes of aliens for whom the Social Security Administration will not normally issue an [SSN](#)Social Security Number, even though they are qualified aliens, unless they are required by law to have an [SSN](#)Social Security Number as a condition of receiving federally funded benefits. If this is the case for an applicant who is otherwise eligible for [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program, the caseworker must send a letter to the [SSA](#)Social Security Administration explaining the need for an [SSN](#)Social Security Number for the purpose of qualifying for Temporary Assistance benefits.
- Added link to new addendum.

[MS 759-6](../759/759-6_income_from_self-employment.md)      INCOME FROM SELF-EMPLOYMENT

- Updated Self-Employment Standards due to [FPL](#)Federal Poverty Limit changes effective April 2023.

[MS 780-19 G](../780/780-19_shelter_allowance.md#780-19_G._HOMELESS_SHELTER_DEDUCTION)      HOMELESS SHELTER DEDUCTION

- Updated the [EIS](#)Eligibility Information System Homeless Shelter Deduction code from "OE AT" to "HS."
- Clarified that other shelter or utility deductions cannot be used with the Homeless Shelter Deduction.

Addendum 6      SOCIAL SECURITY ENUMERATION LETTER TEMPLATE

- Added new addendum for Social Security Enumeration Template.