---
policy_id: "mc__67_(12_24)"
title: "MC #67 (12/24)"
parent: "Adult Long-Term Care"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Adult Long-Term Care\transmittals\mc__67_(12_24).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "506"
  - "520"
  - "526"
  - "528"
  - "554"
  - "570"
  - "575"
  - "580"
---

ADLTC - Alaska Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC  #67

MANUAL:  Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Eligibility Manual

DATE:  December 2, 2024

This year Social Security announced a Cost of Living Allowance (COLACost of Living Allowance) increase effective January 2025. We have updated Addendum 1 and the examples throughout the manual with the following items to reflect the 2.5% increase for 2025:

- An increase to the Long Term Care community spouse resource and income allowance and household member standards;
- An increase to the Excess Home Equity resource maximum;
- An increase to the Special Long Term Care Income Standard;
- Changes in Medicare Part A and B premiums; and
- Changes in Medicare Part D premium and coverage information, including changes to the Low-Income Subsidy program

We have also made several changes to clarify existing policy as a result of policy questions or suggestions from the field. An overview of the changes are listed below.

If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[506](../../506_medicare/506_medicare.md)       Medicare

- Revised section to clarify that [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income recipients are categorically eligible for Medicaid.

[520(A)](../../520_eligibility_requirements_that_follow_apa_policy/520_elig_req_apa_policy.md#520_A__APPLICATION_PROCESS)    Application Process

- Revised policy to allow for digital and handwritten signatures created on an electronic device (finder/stylus to screen) effective October 1, 2024.
- Clarified that  a request to add other programs to an existing Medicaid application must be done timely or a new application is required.
- Revised note to clarify that [FFM](#)Federally Facilitated Marketplace and [SSP](#)Self Service Portal applications are valid for any category of Medicaid but additional information is needed from the household for [ADLTC](#)Aged, Disabled, and Long Term Care Medicaid categories.

[520(C)](../../520_eligibility_requirements_that_follow_apa_policy/520_elig_req_apa_policy.md#520_C.______PROOF_OF_UNITED_STATES_CITIZENSHIP_AND_QUALIFIED_ALIEN_STATUS)    Proof of United States Citizenship and Qualified Alien Status

- Removed reference to a parent, guardian, or caretaker relative attesting to the identity of a child under the age of 16 by signing an identity declaration (the application) as this is not allowed without a wet signature.

[526(D)](../../526_qualifying_income_trusts/526_qualifying_income_trusts.md#526_D__PAYMENTS_MADE_FROM_A_QIT)    Payments made from a QIT

- Due to a federal regulation change effective September 30, 2024, removed food from in-kind support and maintenance ([ISM](#)In-Kind Support and Maintenance) calculations.

[528(A)](../../528_processing_cases_with_trusts/528_processing_cases_with_trusts.md#528_A_INITIAL_CASE_PROCESSING)   Initial Case Processing

- Updated section to clarify that the MED 20 is not completed unless the Medicaid Qualifying Trust is used to establish or maintain Medicaid eligibility.

[554(D)](../../554_transfer_of_assets/554_transfer_of_assets.md#554_D_Look_Back_Period)    Look Back Period

- Updated example due to the [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance change.

[570(D)](../../570_post_eligibility_treatment_of_income_(coca)/570_post_eligibility_and_coc.md#570_D__INCOME_DISREGARDED_IN_THE_COST_OF_CARE_DETERMINATION)   Income Disregarded in the Cost of Care Determination

- Changed Palmer Pioneer Home to Alaska Veterans and Pioneers Home due to a name change.

[570(E)](../../570_post_eligibility_treatment_of_income_(coca)/570_post_eligibility_and_coc.md#570_E__ALLOWABLE_DEDUCTIONS_FOR_COST_OF_CARE_DETERMINATIONS)   Allowable Deductions for Cost of Care Determinations

- Updated example of [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program [ANI](#)Adult Not Included standard due to the [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance change.

[570(H)](../../570_post_eligibility_treatment_of_income_(coca)/570_post_eligibility_and_coc.md#570_H__NURSING_HOME_EXAMPLES)   Nursing Home Examples

- Updated example due to the [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance change.

[570(J)](../../570_post_eligibility_treatment_of_income_(coca)/570_post_eligibility_and_coc.md#570_J__HOME_AND_COMMUNITY_BASED_WAIVER_CASE_EXAMPLES)    Home and Community Based Waiver Case Examples

- Updated example due to the [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance change.

[575(B)](../../575_alaska_breast_and_cervical_screening_assistance_program/575_breast_and_cervical_cancer.md#575_B.______APPLICATION)   Application

- Revised section to include other application methods.

[580](../../580_medicare_savings_programs/580_medicare_premium_assistance.md)    Medicare Savings Programs

- Due to a federal regulation change effective October 1, 2024, revise section to indicate that if an [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income recipient is approved for Medicaid, we must automatically enroll them in [QMB](#)Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries starting the month following the Medicaid approval.
- Updated [QMB](#)Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries and [SLMB](#)Specified Low Income Medicare Beneficiaries resource limits.

[580(A)](../../580_medicare_savings_programs/580_medicare_premium_assistance.md#580_A__Qualified_Medicare_Beneficiaries)   Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries

- Revised section to indicate that [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income recipients are automatically eligible for [QMB](#)Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries. Non-[SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income recipients must have countable income equal to or less than 100% of the FPG.

[580(D)](../../580_medicare_savings_programs/580_medicare_premium_assistance.md#580_D___LOW_INCOME_SUBSIDY__LIS__PROGRAM)   Low Income Subsidy Program

- Updated resource limits.

[Addendum 1](../../addenda/addendum_1.md)    Program Standards

- Updated standards due to the [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance change.
- Updated Medicare Part A, Part B, and Part D premiums for 2025.
- Updated Spousal Impoverishment standards for 2025.

[Addendum 2](../../addenda/addendum_2.md)     APA Related Medicaid Subtypes, Eligibility Codes, and Waiver Codes

- Removed invalid [RPTC](#)Residential Psychiatric Treatment Center Medicaid Subtype.

[Addendum 5](../../addenda/addendum_5.md)    Medicaid EIS Notices

- Updated notice listing.

[Addendum 8](../../addenda/addendum_8.md)    Working Disabled Medicaid Buy-In Procedures

- Revised to include Expanded Refused Cash and [LTC](#)Long Term Care Medicaid.
- Revised to include other application methods.
- Changed 1619B report system from Luminist to Mobius.