---
policy_id: "mc__29_(12_25)"
title: "MC #29 (12/25)"
parent: "MAGI Medicaid Eligibility"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\MAGI Medicaid Eligibility\transmittals\mc__29_(12_25).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "808-4"
  - "823-1"
  - "823-2"
  - "833"
---

Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC #29

MANUAL:  MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid program

DATE: December 1, 2025

This year Social Security announced a 2.8% [COLA](mc__17_(12_21).md#)Cost of Living Allowance increase that effects the Parent/Caretaker Relative and Under 21 Medicaid categories starting in January of 2026. We have also made several changes to clarify existing policy as a result of policy questions or suggestions from the field. An overview of the changes are listed below.

If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov.](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov)

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[806-3](../../806_application_process/renewal_requirements.md#806-3_Renewal_Requirements)   Renewal Requirements

- Revised to indicate that when a renewal is approved, the new certification period beings the month after the last certification period ended.

[808-4](../../808_us_citizenship_and_eligible_alien_status/808-4_five_year_waiting_period.md#808-4_Five_Year_Waiting_Period)   Five Year Waiting Period

- Revised the note to align with the SNAP policy changes from November 1, 2025.

[823-1(B)](../../823_verification_and_documentation/823-1_sources_of_electronic_verification.md#823-1_B._Other_Electronic_Data_Sources)   Other Electronic Data Sources

- Removed Winstar and replaced it with ACSESS (Alaska Child Support Enforcement Services System).

[823-2](../../823_verification_and_documentation/823-2_reasonable_compatibility.md#823-2_Reasonable_Compatibility)   Reasonable Compatibility

- Added note clarifying that "interface" is used as verification in [ARIES](#)Alaska's Resource for Integrated Eligibility Services for reasonable compatibility as client statement is not allowed for earned income and the case will pend.

[833(C)](../../833_hospital_presumptive_eligibility/833_hosptial_presumptive_eligibility_determination.md#833_C._Subtypes)   Subtypes

- Added revised [MIBW](mc_23_(12_23).md#)Medical Insurance Budget Worksheet Subtype Worksheet to include the Parent/Caretaker Relative and Under 21 Standards as of January 2026.

[Addendum 1](../../addenda/addendum-1_magi_medicaid_income_standards.md)   MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid Income Standards

- Updated the Parent/Caretaker Relatives and Under 21 income standards due to the 2.8% COLACost of Living Allowance increase effective January 2026.