---
policy_id: "mc__72_(09_22)"
title: "MC #72 (09/22)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__72_(09_22).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "710-4"
  - "770-8"
  - "780-19"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #72

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: September 1, 2022

The Alaska Temporary Assistance Program (ATAP) heating and non-heating utility standards change effective October 2022. The Eligibility Information System (EIS) will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning October 2022.

Highlights of all the policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 710-4](../710/710-4_native_family_assistance_programs_and_eligibility_for_alaska_temporary_assistance.md)      NATIVE FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS AND ELIGIBILITY FOR ALASKA TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE

- Clarified the timeframe for which [DPA](#)Division of Public Assistance will consider a client's eligibility after a client provides proof they are ineligible to receive assistance through an [NFAP](#)Native Family Assistance Program.

[MS 770-8 A](../770/770-8_deeming_income_and_resources.md#770-8_A._SPONSORED_ALIENS)      SPONSORED ALIENS

- Clarified that [SNAP](#)Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program gross income limit is used to determine an alien's indigent status.

[MS 780-19 G](../780/780-19_shelter_allowance.md#780-19_G._HOMELESS_SHELTER_DEDUCTION)      HOMELESS SHELTER DEDUCTION

- Updated the amount of the homeless shelter deduction.

[Addendum 1](../addenda/addendum_1_-_exempt_alaska_native_villages.md)      EXEMPT ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES

- Updated the exempt Alaska Native villages based on the 2022 [DOL](#)Department of Labor and Workforce Development survey results.

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program INCOME AND PAYMENT STANDARDS

- Updated the heating and non-heating utility standards for [FFY](#)Federal Fiscal Year 2023.

[Addendum 5](../addenda/addendum_5_-_countable_and_excluded_income_for_atap.md)      COUNTABLE AND EXCLUDED INCOME FOR [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

- Added new addendum similar to [MAGI](#)Modified Adjusted Gross Income Addendum 3 showing examples of different incomes and whether they are considered countable income.