---
policy_id: "mc__61_(12_18)"
title: "MC #61 (12/18)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__61_(12_18).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "770-3"
  - "780-1"
  - "780-3"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #61

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: December 3, 2018

This year Social Security announced a 2.8% [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase effective January 1, 2019. We have updated the Alaska Temporary Assistance income eligibility and shelter allowance standards to reflect the annual [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance adjustments in Social Security benefits. The new standards are effective beginning with the benefit month of January 2019. The Eligibility Information System will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning January 2019.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

MS 756-7 B      DEEMING THE INCOME OF THE PARENT OF A MINOR PARENT

- Updated section to mirror "Deeming the Income of a Stepparent" for consistency.

[MS 770-3 J](../770/770-3_minor_parents.md#770-3_J._A_MINOR_PARENT_IN_A_TWO-PARENT_TEMPORARY_ASSISTANCE_FAMILY)      A MINOR PARENT IN A TWO PARENT TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FAMILY

- Added section to clarify how to properly report a teen parent in a 2P household when one parent is 18 and the other is 17.

[MS 780-1 G](../780/780-1_definitions.md#780-1_G._RATABLE_REDUCTION)      RATABLE REDUCTION

- Updated the ratable reduction to reflect the 2019 Social Security [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase.

[MS 780-3](../780/780-3_calculating_the_payment_amount.md)      CALCULATING THE PAYMENT AMOUNT

- Updated the standards to reflect the 2019 Social Security [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase, along with examples A, B, and C to reflect the updated need standards.

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE INCOME & PAYMENT STANDARDS

- Updated the income eligibility standards and maximum shelter allowances for 2019.