---
policy_id: "mc__79_(12_24)"
title: "MC #79 (12/24)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__79_(12_24).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "705"
  - "705-2"
  - "780-1"
  - "780-3"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #79

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: December 2, 2024

Social Security announced a 2.5% [COLA](mc__76_(12_23).md#)Cost of Living Allowance increase effective January 1, 2025. We have updated the Alaska Temporary Assistance Program (ATAP) income eligibility and shelter allowance standards to reflect the annual [COLA](mc__76_(12_23).md#)Cost of Living Allowance adjustments in Social Security benefits. The new standards are effective beginning with the benefit month of January 2025. The Eligibility Information System (EIS) will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning January 2025.

Highlights of all the policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 705](../705/705_application_process.md)               APPLICATION PROCESS

- Clarified that the request to add other programs to an existing [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program application must be done timely, or a new application is required.
- Revised to allow for digital and handwritten signatures created on an electronic device (finger/stylus to screen.)
- Removed note requiring a "wet signature" on Appendix D: Child Support Information Form (GEN53)

[MS 705-2A](../705/705-2_the_application_form.md#705-2_A._WHAT_IS_AN_ACCEPTABLE_APPLICATION_FORM)         WHAT IS AN ACCEPTABLE APPLICATION FORM?

- Revised to include other application methods.

[MS 780-1 G](../780/780-1_definitions.md#780-1_G._RATABLE_REDUCTION)         RATABLE REDUCTION

- Updated the ratable reduction to reflect the 2025 Social Security [COLA](mc__76_(12_23).md#)Cost of Living Allowance increase.

[MS 780-3](../780/780-3_calculating_the_payment_amount.md)            CALCULATING THE PAYMENT AMOUNT

- Updated the standards to reflect the 2025 Social Security [COLA](mc__76_(12_23).md#)Cost of Living Allowance increase, along with examples A, B, and C to reflect the updated need standards.

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      PROGRAM STANDARDS

- Updated the monetary amount referenced when determining deemed income of the stepparents, to the current pregnant woman need standard.
- Updated the income eligibility standards and maximum shelter allowances for 2025.
- Removed Copper River Census area from the Norther Utility Region and added it to the South Central Utility Region.