---
policy_id: "mc__21_(09_08)"
title: "MC #21 (09/08)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__21_(09_08).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "731-1"
  - "731-2"
  - "758-3"
  - "759-6"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #21

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: September 2, 2008

The Alaska Temporary Assistance heating and non-heating utility standards increase effective October 2008. The Eligibility Information System (EIS) will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning October 2008. We also took this opportunity to make several minor clarifications and technical corrections.

Highlights of these revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at 465-3382 or email [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 731-1](../731/731-1_initial_assessment.md)      Assessment

- In MS 731-1 A, replaces reference to MS 719-6 with MS 719. MS 719-6 does not exist.
- In MS 731-1 B, removes reference to MS 732. MS 732 is currently Reserved and contains no policy.

[MS 731-2](../731/731-2_notification_and_screening.md)      Domestic Violence

- Replaces references to Child Support Enforcement Divisions and [CSED](#)Child Support Enforcement Division with Child Support Services Division and [CSSD](#)Child Support Services Division
- Updates form names and numbers in MS 731-2 C and MS 731-2 D

[MS 758-3 C](../758/758-3_education_assistance.md#758-3_C._BUDGETING_COUNTABLE_EDUCATION_INCOME)      Budgeting Countable Education Income

- Adds reference to use the business mileage rate
- Adds IRS website to get the current business mileage rate

[MS 759-6 B](../759/759-6_income_from_self-employment.md#759-6_B._COSTS_OF_DOING_BUSINESS)      Costs of Doing Business

- Adds IRS website to get the current business mileage rate

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      Temporary Assistance Income and Payment Standards

- Updates the heating and non-heating utility standards
- Moves Lake & Peninsula Census Area, Bristol Bay Census Area, and Dillingham Census Area from the South Central Utility Region to the Southwest Utility Region. This change is made to better align communities that have similar utility costs.