---
policy_id: "mc__47_(03_15)"
title: "MC #47 (03/15)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__47_(03_15).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "754-2"
  - "757-19"
  - "759-6"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #47

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: March 2, 2015

We are making several changes to clarify existing policy as a result of suggestions from the field. We have also made changes to the self-employment annualization table based on changes in the Federal Poverty Guidelines (FPG) for Alaska.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 754-2](../754/754-2_non-recurring_lump_sum_payments.md)      Non-Recurring Lump Sum Payments

- Adds a note to clarify that the countable amount of the refugee resettlement payment is the amount that is actually received by the family.
- Adds a cross reference to [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program MS 758-2 for exempt vendor payments.
- Adds a cross reference to [FS](#)Food Stamp MS 605-6 for households that are categorically eligible for the Food Stamp Program.

[MS 757-19](../757/757-19_summer_youth_employment_and_training_program.md)      Non-Recurring Lump Sum Payments

- Adds a note to clarify that the countable amount of the refugee resettlement payment is the amount that is actually received by the family.
- Adds a cross reference [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program MS 758-2 for exempt vendor payments.
- Adds a cross reference to [FS](#)Food Stamp MS 605-6 for households that are categorically eligible for the Food Stamp Program.

[MS 759-6 E](../759/759-6_income_from_self-employment.md#759-6_E._BUDGETING_SELF-EMPLOYMENT_INCOME)      Budgeting Self-Employment Income

- Updates the annualization chart in subsection 4 to reflect new federal poverty guidelines.

MS 770-1      [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income Child Cases

- Clarifies the countable amount of [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income to a child receiving [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income and differentiates between the [RSDI](#)Retirement Survivors Disability Insurance and [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income benefits.
- Adds a note with a hyperlink to the [APA 3](#)SSA Fax Information Request Form form for [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income children whose [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income is being reduced by [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program/[TANF](#)Temporary Assistance to Needy Families income.