---
policy_id: "mc__26_(12_24)"
title: "MC #26 (12/24)"
parent: "MAGI Medicaid Eligibility"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\MAGI Medicaid Eligibility\transmittals\mc__26_(12_24).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "806-1"
  - "833"
---

Modified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC #26

MANUAL:  MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid program

DATE: December 2, 2024

This year Social Security announced a 2.5% [COLA](mc__17_(12_21).md#)Cost of Living Allowance increase that effects the Parent/Caretaker Relative and Under 21 Medicaid categories starting in January of 2025. We have also made several changes to clarify existing policy as a result of policy questions or suggestions from the field. An overview of the changes are listed below.

If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov.](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov)

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[806](../../806_application_process/application_and_renewal_process.md)    Application and Renewal Process

- Revised to allow for digital and handwritten signatures created on an electronic device (finger/stylus to screen).

[806-1(A)](../../806_application_process/806-1_the_application.md)  Acceptable Applications

- Clarified that a GEN 72 is an acceptable as an initial application for MAGI Medicaid.

[833(C)](../../833_hospital_presumptive_eligibility/833_hosptial_presumptive_eligibility_determination.md#833_C._Subtypes)    Subtypes

- Added revised [MIBW](mc_23_(12_23).md#)Medical Insurance Budget Worksheet Subtype Worksheet to include the Parent/Caretaker Relative and Under 21 Standards as of January 2025.

[Addendum 1](../../addenda/addendum-1_magi_medicaid_income_standards.md)   MAGIModified Adjusted Gross Income Medicaid Income Standards

- Updated the Parent and Caretaker Relatives and Under 21 standards due to the 2.5% COLACost of Living Allowance increase.