---
policy_id: "mc__64_(12_19)"
title: "MC #64 (12/19)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__64_(12_19).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "701-1"
  - "701-2"
  - "701-3"
  - "712-3"
  - "713-5"
  - "717"
  - "720-2"
  - "720-3"
  - "730-2"
  - "740-3"
  - "756-4"
  - "757-7"
  - "757-8"
  - "770-1"
  - "770-3"
  - "780-1"
  - "780-19"
  - "780-2"
  - "780-3"
  - "794"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #64

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: December 2, 2019

Social Security announced a 1.6% [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase effective January 1, 2020. We have updated the Alaska Temporary Assistance Program (ATAP) income eligibility and shelter allowance standards to reflect the annual [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance adjustments in Social Security benefits. The new standards are effective beginning with the benefit month of January 2020. The Eligibility Information System (EIS) will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning January 2020.

Highlights of all the policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 701-1 A](../701/701-1_what_is_the_60-month_time_limit_.md#701-1_A._INFORMING_FAMILIES_ABOUT_THE_60-MONTH_TIME_LIMIT)      WHAT IS THE 60-MONTH TIME LIMIT?

- Revised terminology and wording throughout the section for clarity and consistency within the manual.

[MS 701-2](../701/701-2_tracking_&_recording_months_of_assistance.md)      TRACKING AND RECORDING MONTHS OF ASSISTANCE

- Revised terminology and wording throughout the section for clarity and consistency within the manual.

[MS 701-3](../701/701-3_determining_exemptions_and_allowing_extensions_to_the_60-month_limit.md)      DETERMINING EXEMPTIONS AND ALLOWING EXTENSIONS TO THE 60-MONTH LIMIT

- Revised terminology and wording throughout the section for clarity and consistency within the manual.

[MS 712-3](../712/712-3_parental_relationship.md)      PARENTAL RELATIONSHIP

- Revised terminology and wording throughout the section for clarity and consistency within the manual.

[MS 712-3 D](../712/712-3_parental_relationship.md#712-3_D._THE_HEALTH_ANALYTICS_AND_VITAL_RECORDS_AFFIDAVIT_OF_PATERNITY)      THE BUREAU OF VITAL STATISTICS AFFIDAVIT OF PATERNITY

- Changed [CSSD](#)Child Support Services Division mailing instructions of the "Affidavit of Paternity" to emailing instructions and provided applicable email address.
- Added the option to view [BVS](#)Bureau of Vital Statistics fees online and provided a hyperlink to the fee schedule.

[MS 713-5 B](../713/713-5_non-qualified_aliens.md#713-5_B._NON-IMMIGRANTS)      NON-IMMIGRANTS

- Clarified that [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program considers [DACA](#)Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals recipients as non-immigrants and named the [USCIS](#)U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services documentation associated with this type of non-immigrant status.

[MS 717](../717/717_child_support_assignment_and_cooperation.md)      CHILD SUPPORT ASSIGNMENT AND COOPERATION

- Revised terminology and wording throughout the section for clarity and consistency within the manual.
- Changed [CSSD](#)Child Support Services Division communication method from a phone call to sending an email throughout this section, as the process has changed.

[MS 720-2 B](../720/720-2_two-parent_seasonal_benefit_reduction.md#720-2_B._WAIVED_SEASONAL_BENEFIT_REDUCTION)      WAIVED SEASONAL BENEFIT REDUCTION

- Changed waiver request method from having the regional manager contact the Director's Office to having the Work Services case manager email the Division of Policy and Program Development, in order to match state regulations.
- Revised terminology and wording throughout the subsection for clarity and consistency within the manual.

[MS 720-3 B](../720/720-3_determination_of_incapacity_for_a_two-parent_family.md#720-3_B._COMPETENT_MEDICAL_TESTIMONY_USING_THE_HEALTH_STATUS_REPORT_FORM_(TA_10))      COMPETENT MEDICAL TESTIMONY USING THE TA 10 FORM

- Clarified that a two-parent household is required to provide a completed [TA 10](#)Health Status Report Form when claiming incapacity.
- Added noted reminding caseworkers the [TA 10](#)Health Status Report Form form is allowable but not required for single parent households.

[MS 720-3 C](../720/720-3_determination_of_incapacity_for_a_two-parent_family.md#720-3_C._THE_INCAPACITY_DECISION)      THE INCAPACITY DECISION

- Added note to address when a work exemption due to incapacity should begin.
- Provided example explaining how to determine the effective date of the incapacity decision.
- Revised terminology and wording throughout the subsection for clarity and consistency with the manual.

[MS 730-2](../730/730-2_exemptions_from_work_activities.md)      EXEMPTIONS FROM WORK ACTIVITIES

- Revised terminology and wording throughout the subsection for clarity and consistency within the manual.

[MS 740-3 A](../740/740-3_other_public_assistance_programs.md#740-3_A._SNAP_CATEGORICAL_ELIGIBILITY)      [SNAP](#)Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program CATEGORICAL ELIGIBILITY

- Updated hyperlink from [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program MS 740-1 to [WSPM](#)Work Services Procedure Manual 1004-1.

[MS 756-4 A](../756/756-4_types_of_income.md#756-4_A._EARNED_INCOME)      EARNED INCOME

- Revised terminology and wording throughout the subsection for clarity and consistency within the manual.

[MS 757-7](../757/757-7_mature_alaskans_seeking_skills_training_(masst)_payments.md)      MATURE ALASKANS SEEKING SKILLS TRAINING (MASST) PAYMENTS

- Added new subsection regarding "Mature Alaskans Seeking Skills Training (MASST) Payments."
- Renumbered section.

[MS 757-8](../757/757-8_2020_census_income.md)      2020 CENSUS INCOME

- Added new subsection regarding "2020 Census Income."
- Renumbered subsections.

[MS 770-1](../770/770-1_ssi_child_cases.md)      [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income CHILD CASES

- Added explanation as to why [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income income of children included in the [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program unit is counted differently than other income.

[MS 770-3](../770/770-3_minor_parents.md)      MINOR PARENTS

- Revised terminology and wording throughout the section for clarity and consistency within the manual.
- Clarified that shelter expenses should be verified when questionable.

[MS 780-1 G](../780/780-1_definitions.md#780-1_G._RATABLE_REDUCTION)      RATABLE REDUCTION

- Updated the ratable reduction to reflect the 2020 Social Security [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase.

[MS 780-2 C](../780/780-2_special_rules_in_determining_payments.md#780-2_C._SHELTER_ALLOWANCE)      SHELTER ALLOWANCE

- Changed presentation of percentage to align with the rest of the manual.

[MS 780-3](../780/780-3_calculating_the_payment_amount.md)      CALCULATING THE PAYMENT AMOUNT

- Updated the standards to reflect the 2020 Social Security [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase, along with examples A, B, and C to reflect the updated need standards.

[MS 780-19 G](../780/780-19_shelter_allowance.md#780-19_G._HOMELESS_SHELTER_DEDUCTION)      HOMELESS SHELTER DEDUCTION

- Updated the homeless shelter deduction form $143 to $147 to align with SNAP policy.

[MS 794](../794/794_fair_hearings.md)      FAIR HEARINGS

- Removed information that can be found in the Administrative Procedures Manual.

[ADDENDUM 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      PROGRAM STANDARDS

- Updated the monetary amount referenced when determining deemed income of the stepparents, to the current pregnant woman need standard.
- Updated the income eligibility standards and maximum shelter allowances for 2020.