---
policy_id: "mc__78_(09_24)"
title: "MC #78 (09/24)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__78_(09_24).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "701-1"
  - "705-3"
  - "705-4"
  - "711-2"
  - "713"
  - "713-5"
  - "713-6"
  - "723-2"
  - "758-8"
  - "777"
  - "780-19"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #78

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: September 3, 2024

The Alaska Temporary Assistance Program (ATAP) heating and non-heating utility standards change effective October 2024. The Eligibility Information System (EIS) will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning October 2024.

Highlights of all the policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 701-1 D](../701/701-1_what_is_the_60-month_time_limit_.md#701-1_D._MONTHS_THAT_DO_NOT_COUNT_TOWARD_THE_60-MONTH_TIME_LIMIT)         MONTHS THAT DO NOT COUNT TOWARD THE 60-MONTH TIME LIMIT

- Added a reference to Pandemic Emergency Assistance Funding (PEAF) and newly created [NRST](#)Non-Recurrent Short-Term section.

[MS 705-3 E](../705/705-3_the_interview.md#705-3_E._SCHEDULING_INTERVIEWS)         SCHEDULING INTERVIEWS

- Added request for services language back to the [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual.
- Updated the reference to X010, which is now titled "ATAP BENEFITS DENIED - MISSED INTERVIEW."

[MS 705-4 B](../705/705-4_verification.md#705-4_B._INFORMATION_FROM_DATA_SYSTEMS_AND_EIS_INTERFACES)         INFORMATION FROM DATA SYSTEMS AND EIS INTERFACES

- Removed [INME](#)EIS Inquiry Menu#9 for [PFD](#)Permanent Fund Dividend income from mandatory interfaces listed and replaced with [IEVS](#)Instant Eligibility Verification System.

[MS 711-2](../711/711-2_mandatory_filing_unit_(mfu)__who_must_be_included_in_the_assistance_unit.md)             MANDATORY FILING UNIT (MFU): WHO MUST BE INCLUDED IN THE ASSISTANCE UNIT

- Revised the note to remove, "ALWAYS" language that was added in MC#66 regarding birth certificates/biological parents. In many instances, parental rights being terminated "trump" biology and old birth certificates are null and void after being updated.

[MS 713](../713/713_us_citizenship_and_eligible_alien_status.md)                US CITIZENSHIP AND QUALIFIED ALIEN STATUS

- Added [COFA](#)Compact of Free Association migrants as a group eligible for [ATAP](#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program benefits.

[MS 713-5 B](../713/713-5_non-qualified_aliens.md#713-5_B._NON-IMMIGRANTS)          NON-IMMIGRANTS

- Clarified that although a [COFA](#)Compact of Free Association migrant is is exempt from the five-year waiting period, if their status changes to a qualified alien as outlined in MS 717-2, the five-year waiting period will apply unless they meet an exemption listed in MS 713-4 D.

[MS 713-6 C](../713/713-6_documentation_of_united_states_citizenship_and_eligible_alien_status.md#713-6_C._PROOF_OF_QUALIFIED_ALIEN_STATUS)          PROOF OF ELIGIBLE ALIEN STATUS

- Added reference to the Administration for Children & Families' Shepherd HHS Letter Verification website for verifying interim assistance letters and eligibility letters for the victims of trafficking (<https://shepherd.otip.acf.hhs.gov/shepherdpublic/letterverification>.)

[MS 723-2](../723/723-2_beginning_a_penalty.md)             BEGINNING A PENALTY

- Updated the note to include information about work eligible families being considered optional for the purposes of receiving assistance during the period of retroactivity.

[MS 758-8](../758/758-8_reserved.md)             [OCS](#)Office of Children's Services EMERGENCY RELIEF SUPPORT PAYMENTS

- Removed from unearned income section and added to new section for Non-Recurrent Short-Term Benefits (NRST). Changed subsection title to "Reserved".

[MS 777](../777/777_non-recurrent_short-term_(nrst)_benefits.md)                NON-RECURRENT SHORT-TERM BENEFITS

- Added new section for Non-Recurrent Short-Term Benefits (NRST).
- Included subsections for:
  - [OCS](#)Office of Children's Services Emergency Relief Support (ERS) Program (removed from [MS 758-8](../758/758-8_reserved.md)).
  - Victims of "[EBT](#)Electronic Benefit Transfer skimming" related fraud.
  - Energy Assistance related payments ([LIHEAP](#)Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program or [LIHWAP](#)Low Income Household Water Assistance Program) on behalf of low-income families.

[MS 780-19 G](../780/780-19_shelter_allowance.md#780-19_G._HOMELESS_SHELTER_DEDUCTION)       HOMELESS SHELTER DEDUCTION 

- Updated the homeless shelter deduction to $190 for [FFY](mc__75_(09_23).md#)Federal Fiscal Year 2025.

[Addendum 1](../addenda/addendum_1_-_exempt_alaska_native_villages.md)       EXEMPT ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES

- Updated the exempt Alaska Native villages based on the 2024 [DOL](mc__75_(09_23).md#)Department of Labor and Workforce Development employment survey results.

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)       [ATAP](mc__75_(09_23).md#)Alaska Temporary Assistance Program INCOME AND PAYMENT STANDARDS 

- Updated the heating and non-heating utility standards for [FFY](mc__75_(09_23).md#)Federal Fiscal Year 2025.