---
policy_id: "mc__71_(04_26)"
title: "MC #71 (04/26)"
parent: "Adult Long-Term Care"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Adult Long-Term Care\mc__71_(04_26).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "520"
  - "533"
  - "534"
  - "580"
---

ADLTC - Alaska Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC  #71

MANUAL:  Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Eligibility Manual

DATE:  April 1, 2026

We have updated the 2026 Federal Poverty Level guidelines for income eligibility effective April 1, 2026. We have also updated other sections that use Federal Poverty Level guidelines for income eligibility.

This manual change also consists of several technical changes or clarifications as a result of suggestions from the field. Highlights of these revisions are described below. 

If you have any questions, please contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[520(B)](520_eligibility_requirements_that_follow_apa_policy/520_elig_req_apa_policy.md#520_B_WHEN_AN_APPLICATION_IS_REQUIRED)     When an Application is Required

- Added a note to clarify that we do not have to have an application when someone is transitioning from Expansion Medicaid to [ADLTC](#)Aged, Disabled, and Long Term Care Medicaid either for being 65 or having a disability determination.

[533(E)](533_disabled_children_at_home_(tefra)/533_e_tefra_reviews.md)     [TEFRA](#)Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act, P.L. 97-248 Reviews

- Added to send notice M315 when child is turning 18.

[534(K)](534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in/534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in.md#534_K__EXAMPLE_OF_AN_ELIGIBILITY_DETERMINATION)     Example of an Eligibility Determination

- Updated examples with 2026 Federal Poverty Level Changes.

[534(M)](534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in/534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in.md#534_M__EXAMPLE_OF_AN_ELIGIBILITY_DETERMINATION_WITH_A_MEDICAID)     Example of an Eligibility Determination with a Medicaid Qualifying Trust

- Updated examples with 2026 Federal Poverty Level Changes.

[580](580_medicare_savings_programs/580_medicare_premium_assistance.md)     Medicare Savings Programs

- Updated [QMB](#)Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries and [SLMB](#)Specified Low Income Medicare Beneficiaries resource limits.

[Addendum 1](addenda/addendum_1.md)

- Updated with 2026 Federal Poverty Level Changes.
- Updated Pickle chart.