---
policy_id: "mc__40_(04_16)"
title: "MC #40 (04/16)"
parent: "Adult Long-Term Care"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Adult Long-Term Care\transmittals\mc__40_(04_16).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "505"
  - "506"
  - "534"
  - "562"
  - "576"
---

ADLTC - Alaska Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC  #40

MANUAL:  Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Eligibility Manual

DATE:  April 01, 2016

We are making several changes to clarify existing policy as a result of policy questions or suggestions from the field.
 

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at  [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:DPAPolicy@alaska.gov).

[MS 505-E](../../505/505_third_party_liability_and_recovery.md#505_E.______CASEWORKER_ACTIONS_RELATED_TO_TPL____TPR)  Caseworker Actions Related to TPL/TPR

- Corrected TPL policy to match Child Support Policy per clarification from CMS.

[MS 506-I](../../506/506_medicare_buy_in.md#506_H_MEDICARE_SAVINGS_PROGRAMS)  Initiating the Medicare Buy-In

- Updated this section to state that TPL needs to be emailed when initiating a Medicare Buy-In.

[MS 534-K](../../534/534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in.md#534_K__EXAMPLE_OF_AN_ELIGIBILITY_DETERMINATION)  Example of an Eligibility Determination

- Updated this section to reflect new FPL changes.

[MS 534-M](../../534/534_working_disabled_medicaid_buy-in.md#534_M__EXAMPLE_OF_AN_ELIGIBILITY_DETERMINATION_WITH_A_MEDICAID)  Example of an Eligibility Determination with a Medicaid Qualifying Trust

- Updated this section to reflect new FPL changes.

[MS 562-L](../../562/562_processing_hcb_waiver.md)  LOC denial by DSDS for On-Going HCB Waiver Cases

- Clarifies to look at Expansion Medicaid, if there is no Medicare eligibility.

[MS 576](../../576/576_emergency_treatment_for_aliens.md)  Emergency Treatment for Aliens

- Deleted note regarding baby born to mother is not covered under Emergency Alien Medicaid, the baby is eligible for Medicaid.

[Addendum 1](../../addenda/addendum_1.md)  Update with 2016 COLA changes

Addendum 6  Removed due to being superfluous.