---
policy_id: "mc__10_(12_08)"
title: "MC #10 (12/08)"
parent: "Adult Long-Term Care"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Adult Long-Term Care\transmittals\mc__10_(12_08).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "505"
  - "506"
  - "513"
  - "554"
  - "555"
  - "580"
---

ADLTC - Alaska Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  MC  #10

MANUAL:  Aged, Disabled and Long Term Care Medicaid Eligibility Manual

DATE:  December 1, 2008

We have updated the following items to reflect annual colaCost of Living Allowance increases for 2009:

- Long Term Care community spouse resource and income allowance, and household member standards
- Medicare Part A and B premiums
- Medicare Part D premium and coverage information, including changes to the Low-Income Subsidy program

We have also changed references to the previous SeniorCare Program to the current Senior Benefits Program and made numerous other technical changes and corrections.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below.  If you have any questions please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at 465-3382 or email [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:DPApolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 505](../../505/505_third_party_liability_and_recovery.md)  Third Party Liability (TPL ) and Recovery

- Replaces references to specific offices and agencies with the words appropriate office or agency.

[MS 506 D (3)](../../506/506_medicare_buy_in.md#506_D_3__Part_C_Medicare_Advantage_Plans)  Part C: Medicare + Choice

- Changes the Note to clarify that there are a few Part C plans in Alaska, but participation has historically been limited.

[MS 513 E](../../513/513_alaska_residency.md#513_E_RESIDENCY_GUIDE)  Residency Guide

- Replaces the word capable with incapable in the third box down in the table.

[MS 554 E](../../554/554_transfer_of_assets.md#554_E_Penalty Start Date)  Penalty Start Date

- Clarifies that a transfer of asset penalty always starts on the first day of the month..

[MS 555 C](../../555/555_institutional_deeming.md#555_C__EIS_INFORMATION)  EIS  Information

- Removes Medicaid Subtypes IC and IF from table as  they are not currently being used.

[MS 580 D (2)](../../580/580_medicare_premium_assistance.md#580_D_2__When_DPA_Processes_the_Application)   When DPADivision of Public Assistance Processes the Application

- Changes the name of the Alaska Senior Care Program to Alaska Senior Benefits Program.

[Addendum 1](../../addenda/addendum_1.md)   Program Standards

- Updates LTCLong Term Care standards with the 2009 community spouse resource and income allowance, and household member standards, Medicare premiums, and Low Income Subsidy tables.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](mc_9_(07_08).md) |  | [Next](mc__11_(02_09).md) |
|  |  |  |