---
policy_id: "mc__57_(12_17)"
title: "MC #57 (12/17)"
parent: "Temporary Assistance"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Temporary Assistance\transmittals\mc__57_(12_17).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "713-6"
  - "780-1"
  - "780-3"
---

Alaska Temporary Assistance Program Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #57

MANUAL: Alaska Temporary Assistance Program

DATE: December 1, 2017

This year Social Security announced a 2.0% [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase effective January 1, 2018. We have updated the Alaska Temporary Assistance income eligibility and shelter allowance standards to reflect the annual [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance adjustments in Social Security benefits. The new standards are effective beginning with the benefit month of January 2018. The Eligibility Information System will automatically apply these new standards when determining eligibility and benefit amounts beginning January 2018.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[MS 713-6 E](../713/713-6_documentation_of_united_states_citizenship_and_eligible_alien_status.md#713-6_E._ALIENS_WITHOUT_DOCUMENTATION)      [SAVE](#)Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements Processing Delays

- Removed Section E due to fair hearing request and unsupported guidance.
- Renumbered 713-6 F to 713-6 E.

[MS 780-1 G](../780/780-1_definitions.md#780-1_G._RATABLE_REDUCTION)      Ratable Deduction

- Updated the ratable reduction to reflect the 2018 Social Security [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase.

[MS 780-3](../780/780-3_calculating_the_payment_amount.md)      Calculating the Payment Amount

- Updated the standards to reflect the 2018 Social Security [COLA](#)Cost of Living Allowance increase, along with examples A, B, and C to reflect the updated need standards.

[Addendum 2](../addenda/addendum_2_-_program_standards.md)      Temporary Assistance Income & Payment Standards

- Updated the income eligibility standards and maximum shelter allowances for 2018