---
policy_id: "memo_mc__64_(04_22)"
title: "Memo MC #64 (04/22)"
parent: "Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual\transmittals\memo_mc__64_(04_22).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "410-4"
  - "426-2"
  - "426-5"
  - "426-7"
---

APA - Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #64

MANUAL: Adult Public Assistance

DATE: April 1, 2022

We are making several changes to incorporate new policy, clarifying existing policy, and align policies within our policy manuals. Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the result of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

[410-4](../../410/410-4_verification.md)            Verification

- Clarified that [SVES](#)State Verification Exchange System must always be checked at application and recertification, and death match alerts that are generated during the certification period must be processed within 10 days.
- Clarified that [BENDEX](#)Beneficiary and Earnings Data Exchange should be checked only if it appears the applicant or recipient could be eligible for Social Security benefits.

[426-2F](../../426/426-2_eligibility_requirements_for_interim_assistance.md#426_2_F_CONTACTING_THE_MEDICAL_REVIEWER)        Contacting the Medical Reviewer

- Updated email address for [IA](#)Interim Assistance Reviewer from DPAInterim.Assistance@alaska.gov to [hss.dpa.interim.assist@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.interim.assist@alaska.gov).

[426-7(D)](../../426/426-7_converting_interim_assistance.md#426_7_D__NOT_ELIGIBLE_FOR_SSI_FOR_ANY_REASON_EXCEPT_EXCESS)      Not Eligible for [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income Due to Not Meeting Disability Criteria

- Clarified that we do not terminate [IA](#)Interim Assistance benefits if a recipient has their [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income claim denied for not being disabled.  As a recipient, we give them 30 days to provide verification that they are appealing their Social Security denial.  If they provide verification that they have appealed the [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income decision, [IA](#)Interim Assistance benefits continue during the appeal process.
- Added a link to [APA MS 426-5](../../426/426-5_processing_ssi_denials__the_ssi_appeal_process.md).