---
policy_id: "memo_mc__73_(09_25)"
title: "Memo MC #73 (09/25)"
parent: "Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual\transmittals\memo_mc__73_(09_25).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "410-5"
  - "410-7"
  - "426-2"
  - "433-3"
  - "452-10"
  - "452-11"
  - "452-6"
---

APA - Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:   [MC](memo_mc__62_(09_21).md#)Manual Change #73

MANUAL:  Adult Public Assistance

DATE:  September 2, 2025

We are making several changes to incorporate new policy and clarify existing policy.

Highlights of these policy revision are described below. If you have any questions, contact the Policy & Program Development Team at [hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov](mailto:hss.dpa.policy@alaska.gov).

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

ENTIRE MANUAL

- Changed [DHCS](#)Division of Health Care Services [TPL](#)Third Party Liability email to [doh.hcs.rec.info@alaska.gov](mailto:doh.hcs.rec.info@alaska.gov)

[410-5(F)](../../410/410-5_actions_taken_on_the_application.md#410_5_F__1_Agency_caused_delays)     Actions Taken on the Application

- Revised subsection F for clarity.

[410-7(A)2](../../410/410-7_initial_month_benefits.md)     Initial Month Benefits

- Updated example 1 in subsection A for clarity.

[426-2(C)](../../426/426-2_eligibility_requirements_for_interim_assistance.md#426_2_C__INTERIM_BLINDNESS_OR_DISABILITY_DETERMINATION)     Eligibility Requirements for Interim Assistance

- Clarified in subsection C that if a client is pursuing Interim Assistance (IA) and has an application status of H80 with [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income, their [APA](#)Adult Public Assistance application should be pended until we get a decision from either [SSI](#)Supplemental Security Income or the [IA](#)Interim Assistance medical reviewer, which is done with the P304.  If [IA](#)Interim Assistance is denied, the P301 would be sent to give the client 30 days to be in pay status.

[433-3(A)](../../433/433-3_permanent_fund_dividend.md#433-3_A._____HOLD_HARLMESS_FOR_SSI_APPLICANTS_AND_RECIPIENTS)     Permanent Fund Dividend

- Revised subsection A to align with changes to the business process.

[452-6](../../452/452-6_issuance_of_apa_payments.md)     Issuance of [APA](#)Adult Public Assistance Payments

- Revised section for clarity.

[452-10(B)](../../452/452-10_temporary_assistance_and_apa.md#452_10_B__TEMPORARY_ASSISTANCE_TO_APA_CONVERSIONS)     Temporary Assistance and [APA](#)Adult Public Assistance

- Updated example 1 and 2 in subsection B to align with current 30 day pend period.

[452-11](../../452/452-11_use_of_apa_payments.md)     Use of [APA](#)Adult Public Assistance payments

- Removed subsection as this information was added to MS 452-6.