---
policy_id: "memo_mc__59_(09_20)"
title: "Memo MC #59 (09/20)"
parent: "Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual\transmittals\memo_mc__59_(09_20).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "410-3"
  - "440-2"
  - "450-5"
  - "470-2"
  - "482-2"
---

APA - Alaska Adult Public Assistance Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER: MC #59

MANUAL: Adult Public Assistance

DATE: September 1, 2020

We are making several changes to incorporate new policy, clarifying existing policy, and align policies within our policy manuals. Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the result of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, contact the Policy and Program Development Team at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

[410-3E](../../410/410-3_the_interview.md#410-3_E__SCHEDULING_INTERVIEWS)        SCHEDULING INTERVIEWS

- Revised bullet #1 to clarify that the individual must agree to the date and time of interview

[440-2](../../440/440-2_when_income_is_counted.md)           WHEN INCOME IS COUNTED

- Revised section to clarify when regular periodic payments are counted.

[450-5](../../450/450-5_living_in_an_institution_.md)           LIVING IN AN INSTITUTION (SSISupplemental Security Income "D" LIVING ARRANGEMENT)

- Clarified when an individual is living in an eligible institution for more than 3 months the APAAdult Public Assistance income limit they are measured against is the $200 Eligible Institution Income Limit.

[470-2](../../470/470-2_continued_benefits_for_temporarily_institutionalized.md)           CONTINUED BENEFITS FOR TEMPORARILY INSTITUTIONALIZED RECIPIENT

- Revised section when an individual is living in an eligible institution for more than 3 months the APAAdult Public Assistance income limit they are measured against is the $200 Eligible Institution Income Level.

[482-2(C)](../../482/482-2_overpayments.md#482_2_C_ESTABLISHING_A_CLAIM)      ESTABLISHING A CLAIM

- Updated section to include an APA 5APA Claims Budget Worksheet along with the GEN 95Report of Claim Determination Form and other supporting documents when establishing a claim.

[ADDENDUM 1](../../addendum/addendum_1.md)

- Revised terminology from "Nursing Home Personal Needs Allowance" to "Eligible Institution" to clarify that individuals who are expected to live in an eligible institution for more than 3 months will have their APAAdult Public Assistance eligibility measured against the $200 Eligible Institution income limit.  If they have countable income equal to or above $200, they are not eligible for APAAdult Public Assistance benefits.