---
policy_id: "116-1"
title: "116 1 116 1 116 1 116 1 Introduction"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\116\116-1_116_1_116_1_116_1_introduction.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

116-1          INTRODUCTION

Native Family Assistance Programs operate under the federal Temporary Assistance for Needy Families block grant to provide benefits and services to eligible families that are comparable to the Alaska Temporary Assistance Program. There are several Native Family Assistance Programs currently operating in Alaska. Each serves a specific population and operates within a specific region of the state. A description of the programs, their specific service areas, and the criteria for families they serve are provided in the Native Family Assistance Program Guide, which is available on DPADivision of Public Assistance's internal website.

In this procedure, Native organizations operating Native Family Assistance Programs (NFAPNative Family Assistance Programs) are identified based on the eligibility system they use to administer benefits. EISEligibility Information System-user NFAPNative Family Assistance Programs are organizations that use DPADivision of Public Assistance's EISEligibility Information System (Eligibility Information System) for determining eligibility and benefit payment amounts. Non-EISEligibility Information System-user NFAPNative Family Assistance Programs are organizations that use their own system.

Currently, CITCCook Inlet Tribal Council (Cook Inlet Tribal Council) is the only [NFAP](#)Native Family Assistance Program agency that uses [EIS](#)Eligibility Information System to issue benefits. All others, such as TCCTanana Chiefs Conference (Tanana Chiefs Conference), AVCPAssociation of Village Council Presidents (Association of Village Council Presidents), and T&H  (Central Council of Tlingit and Haida Tribes of Alaska) are non-EISEligibility Information System-users that have [EIS](#)Eligibility Information System read only access.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](116_nfap_and_dpa_case_processing_procedures.md) |  | [Next Section](116-2_application_processing.md) |
|  |  | [2021-02 (09/21)](../transmittals/transmittal_2021-02.md) |