---
policy_id: "124-3"
title: "124 3 124 3 124 3 124 3 Ssi Children And Youth"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\124\124-3_124_3_124_3_124_3_ssi_children_and_youth.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

124-3          SSISupplemental Security Income CHILDREN AND YOUTH

SSISupplemental Security Income children are categorically eligible for Medicaid and are registered as Medicaid-only (MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled) cases in EISEligibility Information System. These Medicaid-only cases are normally handled by DPADivision of Public Assistance. When an SSISupplemental Security Income child is taken into OCSOffice of Children's Services custody, the child's DPADivision of Public Assistance Medicaid case must be closed and a separate Medicaid case established and handled by OCSOffice of Children's Services Full Service Office 060.

124-3 A.      SSISupplemental Security Income CHILD TAKEN INTO OCS CUSTODY

1. When an SSISupplemental Security Income child is taken into OCSOffice of Children's Services custody, OCSOffice of Children's Services will email DOSTDivision Operations Support Team at [dpadost@alaska.gov](mailto:dpadost@alaska.gov) to handle the SSISupplemental Security Income child's MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case.
2. DPADivision of Public Assistance will then take action to close the child's existing MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case as soon as possible, preferably by the end of the month in which the child entered OCSOffice of Children's Services custody. A 10-day adverse action notice is not required to close the DPADivision of Public Assistance MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case, only adequate notice.
3. OCSOffice of Children's Services will then register a separate Medicaid case for the SSISupplemental Security Income child in Full Service Office 060, with the child as the PI. The benefit start date may begin the first day of the month after the effective date of custody. If the DPADivision of Public Assistance MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case cannot be closed right away, the benefit start date may begin the first day of the month after the DPADivision of Public Assistance MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case closes.
4. OCSOffice of Children's Services should code the MEREMedical Resource Information screen on the OCSOffice of Children's Services case with a DCDisabled Child subtype and a 54 Medical Eligibility Code.

124-3 B.      SSISupplemental Security Income CHILD LEAVES OCSOffice of Children's Services CUSTODY BEFORE REACHING AGE 18

When an SSISupplemental Security Income child leaves OCSOffice of Children's Services custody before reaching age 18, OCSOffice of Children's Services will close the child's Medicaid case in Full Service Office 060, and notify DPADivision of Public Assistance of the case closure by sending an email to DOSTDivision Operations Support Team at [dpadost@alaska.gov](mailto:dpadost@alaska.gov). DPADivision of Public Assistance will then establish Medicaid for the SSISupplemental Security Income child.

124-3 C.      SSISupplemental Security Income CHILD REACHES AGE 18 AND LEAVES OCSOffice of Children's Services CUSTODY

When an SSISupplemental Security Income child who receives Medicaid reaches age 18, the individual or authorized representative may apply for APAAdult Public Assistance. SSISupplemental Security Income children who are eligible for Medicaid are not automatically eligible for Adult Public Assistance (APAAdult Public Assistance) upon reaching age 18. For APAAdult Public Assistance eligibility, the SSISupplemental Security Income individual must complete and submit a new GEN 50CApplication for Services application (see [Admin Manual MS 101-2](../101/101-2_forms.md) for acceptable application forms).

When an SSISupplemental Security Income individual reaches 18 and is release from OCSOffice of Children's Services custody, a MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case must be opened for these children beginning with the date the child reaches age 18 without an application. When an SSISupplemental Security Income child is released from OCSOffice of Children's Services custody upon reaching age 18, the following procedures apply:

Prior to closing out the OCSOffice of Children's Services SSISupplemental Security Income Case, OCSOffice of Children's Services will:

- Petition the court to establish an adult guardian for the SSISupplemental Security Income child if it is determined that a guardian is necessary. If the court has appointed an adult guardian, OCSOffice of Children's Services will notify DPADivision of Public Assistance who the adult guardian is. If an adult guardian is not appointed, OCSOffice of Children's Services will notify DPADivision of Public Assistance that an adult guardian has not been appointed;
- Establish a good physical mailing address for Medicaid coupons;
- Establish a good mailing address for APAAdult Public Assistance and potential SNAPSupplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits;
- If a Special Needs Trust is needed due to PFDPermanent Fund Dividend income or other monies, OCSOffice of Children's Services will advise the youth, or the youth's representative, about the possibility of continued SSISupplemental Security Income, APAAdult Public Assistance, and Medicaid benefits through the use of a Special Needs Trust. If a Special Needs Trust is established, OCSOffice of Children's Services and/or the adult guardian will forward all trust paperwork to DPADivision of Public Assistance Policy in Juneau at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

Only after all process above are completed, OCSOffice of Children's Services will:

- Close the case in Full Service Office 060; and
- Email DOSTDivision Operations Support Team at [dpadost@alaska.gov](mailto:dpadost@alaska.gov) requesting a new MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case to be established. DPADivision of Public Assistance will register and authorize MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled on a new case number and then CARCCase Record Control the case to the appropriate field office.
- If a new GEN 50CApplication for Services application is submitted for APAAdult Public Assistance, the required interview will be completed by DPADivision of Public Assistance. If found eligible for APAAdult Public Assistance, DPADivision of Public Assistance will authorize APAAdult Public Assistance benefits on the open MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case.

124-3 D.      SSISupplemental Security Income CHILD REACHES AGE 18 BUT REMAINS IN OCSOffice of Children's Services CUSTODY

In some cases, an SSISupplemental Security Income child may voluntarily remain in OCSOffice of Children's Services custody beyond the age of 18. In these situations, a separate MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case must still be established by DPADivision of Public Assistance for the individual, but OCSOffice of Children's Services remains responsible for reporting any changes and completing any paperwork requested by DPADivision of Public Assistance. The following procedures apply:

1. OCSOffice of Children's Services will close the child's Medicaid case in Full Service Office 060, and notify DPADivision of Public Assistance of the case closure by sending an email to DPADivision of Public Assistance's Division of Operations Support Team at [dpadost@alaska.gov](mailto:dpadost@alaska.gov) in Anchorage.
2. DPADivision of Public Assistance will CARCCase Record Control the case to a specialized caseload.
3. Once a separate MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case is registered for the individual in EISEligibility Information System, DPADivision of Public Assistance will contact OCSOffice of Children's Services to confirm the information needed to process and maintain the individual's MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled cases with DPADivision of Public Assistance. This information includes:

- APA Payment. To establish APAAdult Public Assistance eligibility and payments, a new application is required. Once DPADivision of Public Assistance receives a new application for APAAdult Public Assistance, the case will be registered to the open MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case ([Admin MS 103-3](../103/103-3_case_numbering_on_eis_and_aries.md)). While the individual remains in custody, OCSOffice of Children's Services is the payee for the individual's APAAdult Public Assistance payment. A Protective Payee Agreement (APA 14Protective Payee Agreement) is not needed because OCSOffice of Children's Services is legally responsible for the individual while he or she remains in OCSOffice of Children's Services custody. The individual's APAAdult Public Assistance payment must be issued to:

Office of Children's Services

PO Box 110630

Juneau, AK 99811

- Notices. Notices and requests for information should be sent to the mailing address used for the individual's previous Medicaid case in Full Service Office 060.
- Medicaid Coupons. Medicaid coupons should continue to be sent to the Medicaid benefit address used for the individual's previous Medicaid case in Full Service Office 060.

1. When the individual is eventually release from OCSOffice of Children's Services custody, OCSOffice of Children's Services will:

- Petition the court to establish an adult guardian for the SSISupplemental Security Income youth if it is determined that a guardian is necessary. If the court has appointed an adult guardian, OCSOffice of Children's Services will notify DPADivision of Public Assistance who the adult guardian is. If an adult guardian is not appointed, OCSOffice of Children's Services will notify DPADivision of Public Assistance that an adult guardian has not been appointed;
- Establish a good physical mailing address for Medicaid coupons;
- Establish a good mailing address for potential APAAdult Public Assistance and SNAPSupplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits;
- If a Special Needs Trust is needed due to PFDPermanent Fund Dividend income or other monies, OCSOffice of Children's Services will advise the youth, or the youth's representative, about the possibility of continued SSISupplemental Security Income, APAAdult Public Assistance, and Medicaid benefits through the use of a Special Needs Trust. If a Special Needs Trust is established, OCSOffice of Children's Services and/or the adult guardian will forward all trust paperwork to DPADivision of Public Assistance Policy in Juneau at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

After all processes in Step 4 are completed, OCSOffice of Children's Services will notify DOSTDivision Operations Support Team so that all EISEligibility Information System screens can be updated.

124-3 E.      SSISupplemental Security Income YOUTH OVER AGE 18 RE-ENTERS OCSOffice of Children's Services CUSTODY

In some cases, a youth who is receiving SSISupplemental Security Income may re-enter OCSOffice of Children's Services custody after their 18th birthday (or before their 18th birthday if they were emancipated). In these situations, DPADivision of Public Assistance continues to maintain the MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case, and OCSOffice of Children's Services is responsible for reporting any changes and completing any paperwork requested by DPADivision of Public Assistance. The following procedures apply:

1. OCSOffice of Children's Services will email DOSTDivision Operations Support Team and notify them that the youth has been taken into custody.
2. DPADivision of Public Assistance will continue to maintain the Medicaid case.
3. To establish APAAdult Public Assistance eligibility payments, an SSISupplemental Security Income youth over the age of 18 or authorized representative must apply with a new application. Once DPADivision of Public Assistance receives a new application for APAAdult Public Assistance, the case will be registered to the open MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled case number ([Admin MS 103-3](../103/103-3_case_numbering_on_eis_and_aries.md)).

DPADivision of Public Assistance will contact OCSOffice of Children's Services to confirm the information needed to process and maintain the individual's APAAdult Public Assistance/MEMedicaid or MEMedicaid-ADAid to the Disabled cases with DPADivision of Public Assistance. This information includes:

- APAAdult Public Assistance Payment.

- If [OCS](#)Office of Children's Services has cost of care of the youth, the [OCS](#)Office of Children's Services caseworker will ask the youth to sign a Protective Payee Agreement ([APA 14](#)Protective Payee Agreement) naming [OCS](#)Office of Children's Services as the representative payee for [APA](#)Adult Public Assistance benefits. [OCS](#)Office of Children's Services will forward the signed agreement to [DPA](#)Division of Public Assistance. When the signed agreement is received by [DPA](#)Division of Public Assistance, the individual's [APA](#)Adult Public Assistance payment must be issued to:

Office of Children's Services
PO Box 110630
Juneau, AK 99811

- If OCSOffice of Children's Services does not have cost of care for the youth, the individual's APAAdult Public Assistance payment will be issued directly to the youth.

- Notices. Notices and requests for information should be sent to the mailing address used for the individual's previous Medicaid case in Full Service Office 060.
- Medicaid Coupons. Medicaid coupons should continue to be sent to the Medicaid benefit address used for the individual's previous Medicaid case in Full Service Office 060.

1. When the individual is eventually released from OCSOffice of Children's Services custody, OCSOffice of Children's Services will:

- Petition the court to establish an adult guardian for the SSISupplemental Security Income youth if it is determined that a guardian is necessary. If the court has appointed an adult guardian, OCSOffice of Children's Services will notify DPADivision of Public Assistance who the adult guardian is. If an adult guardian is not appointed, OCSOffice of Children's Services will notify DPADivision of Public Assistance that an adult guardian has not been appointed;
- Establish a good physical mailing address for Medicaid coupons;
- Establish a good mailing address for potential APAAdult Public Assistance and SNAPSupplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits;
- If a Special Needs Trust is needed due to PFDPermanent Fund Dividend income or other monies, OCSOffice of Children's Services will advise the youth, or the youth's representative, about the possibility of continued SSISupplemental Security Income, APAAdult Public Assistance, and Medicaid benefits through the use of a Special Needs Trust. If a Special Needs Trust is established, OCSOffice of Children's Services and/or the adult guardian will forward all trust paperwork to DPADivision of Public Assistance Policy in Juneau at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

After all processes in Step 4 are completed, OCSOffice of Children's Services will notify DOSTDivision Operations Support Team so that all EISEligibility Information System screens can be updated.

Refer to [section 124-1](124-1_child_or_youth_taken_into_ocs_custody.md) for children and youth not receiving SSISupplemental Security Income.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](124-2_reserved.md) |  | [Next Section](124-4_children_in_custody_found_eligible_for_hcb_waiver_services.md) |
|  |  | [2020-02 (09/20)](../transmittals/transmittal_2020-02.md) |