---
policy_id: "125-5"
title: "125 5 125 5 125 5 125 5 125 5 125 5 Disability Decisions"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\125\125-5_125_5_125_5_125_5_125_5_125_5_disability_decisions.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

125-5          DISABILITY DECISIONS

When the IAInterim Assistance Medical Reviewer makes a determination, the caseworker or functional team will be informed of the decision via email. A copy of the decision will also be sent to the liaison. The IAInterim Assistance medical file will remain with the IA Medical Reviewer and will be kept for six months. After six months, the file will be archived following DPADivision of Public Assistance's rules for archiving case files.

The following decisions may be made on an IAInterim Assistance medical review:

1. IAInterim Assistance Disability Approved: If approved, the caseworker will open an IAInterim Assistance case if the individual meets all other factors of eligibility for IAInterim Assistance. The APAAdult Public Assistance application is pended for an eligibility decision from the SSISupplemental Security Income program so that eligibility for regular APAAdult Public Assistance and Medicaid can be determined.
2. IAInterim Assistance Disability Denied: If denied, the caseworker will pend the APAAdult Public Assistance application for an initial eligibility decision from the SSISupplemental Security Income program so that eligibility for regular APAAdult Public Assistance and Medicaid can be determined.
3. Reconsideration: In some situations, an applicant may choose to submit additional medical information after the Medical Reviewer determines the applicant is not disabled. When this happens, the Medical Reviewer will consider the new information and re-determine the applicant's disability status. New medical information may be submitted at any time.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](125-4_submitting_information_and_contacting_the_medical_reviewer.md) |  | [Next Section](125-6_ia_fair_hearing_process.md) |
|  |  | [2014-01 (04/14)](../transmittals/transmittal_2014-01.md) |