---
policy_id: "128-2"
title: "128 2 128 2 128 2 128 2 128 2 Repatriation Program"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\128\128-2_128_2_128_2_128_2_128_2_repatriation_program.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

128-2          REPATRIATION
PROGRAM

The U.S. Repatriation Program was established in
1935 to provide temporary assistance to U.S. citizens and their dependents
who became destitute in a foreign country. This includes situations in
which the citizen has been abandoned, runs out of funds, commits minor
offenses, or just becomes an embarrassing nuisance in a foreign country.
To assist the citizen in returning to the U.S., the Department of State
will arrange to have this person returned at federal expense to their
home or to another location where the person can resume their life as
quickly as possible.

When someone who is likely to need assistance upon
arrival in the U.S. is returned, the Department of State notifies the
statewide coordinator of the Repatriation Program. In Alaska, the coordinator
is the Social Services Program Coordinator in the Policy and Program Development
Team. The coordinator arranges appropriate assistance.

DPADivision of Public Assistance
will provide a repatriate with necessary cash and medical assistance,
using General Relief or Alaska Temporary Assistance, SNAPSupplemental Nutrition Assistance Program,
and Medicaid payment codes and issuance mechanisms. The Social Services
Program Coordinator will notify DOSTDivision Operations Support Team
of the repatriation case and the destination of the repatriate. The Social
Services Program Coordinator will also furnish exact instructions on how
eligibility and benefit amounts are determined if the repatriate needs
to file an application. DOSTDivision Operations Support Team
handles all the necessary actions to assist the repatriate including coordinating
with DPADivision of Public Assistance field offices
and other agencies such as Tribal TANFTemporary Assistance for Needy Families
agencies, Office of Children's Services, homeless shelters, etc.

Benefits are totally federally-funded and provided
with no other limits or qualifying criteria than that the aid requested
is reasonable, and that the repatriate signs a written agreement to repay
all expenditures.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](128-1_foreign_national_notification_program.md) |  | [Next Section](128-3_repatriation_program_-_metnally_ill_nationals.md) |
|  |  | [2020-02 (09/20)](../transmittals/transmittal_2020-02.md) |