---
policy_id: "2012-04"
title: "2012-04 (09/12)"
parent: "2012-01 (03/12)"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Food Stamp Program\transmittals\2012-04_(09_12).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
---

SNAP - Alaska SNAP Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

**STATE OF ALASKA**

**Department of Health and Social Services**

**Division of Public Assistance**

**TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:**   2012-04

**MANUAL:**   Alaska Food Stamp Program

**DATE:**   August 31, 2012

We are making several changes to the Food Stamp manual to incorporate the PFD Hold Harmless manual and PFD Processing Guide into the Food Stamp manual. Information on processing PFD Hold Harmless benefits will now be kept in one place instead of three.  There has been no change to PFD Hold Harmless policy.

This change also includes yearly changes to the income and utility standards that take effect October 1, 2012.

Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the results of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these and other policy revisions are described below.  If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at (907)465-3328 or email [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

**OVERVIEW OF CHANGES**

**MS 605-7** **Permanent Fund Dividend Special Processing**

- Adds all sections from the former PFD Hold Harmless manual.
- Adds additional sections to Food Stamp manual that further detail PFD Hold Harmless processes.
- Adds links to examples that open in separate windows.
- Adds links EIS processes that open in separate windows.

**[Addendum 4](../../Addenda/Addendum_4%2b.md)** **Program Standards and Maximum Allotments**

- Updates standards and max shelter deductions.
- Updates gross and net income limits.
- Updates heating and non-heating utility standards.

**Addendum 10** **Alaska PFD EIS Notices for PFD Hold Harmless**

- Creates a new addendum for PFD Hold Harmless notices.