---
policy_id: "2014-03"
title: "2014-03 (09/14)"
parent: "2014"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Food Stamp Program\transmittals\2014-03_(09_14).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "600-2"
  - "601-4"
  - "602-1"
  - "604-3"
  - "604-4"
  - "605-1"
---

SNAP - Alaska SNAP Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

**STATE
OF ALASKA**

**Department
of Health and Social Services**

**Division
of Public Assistance**

**TRANSMITTAL
NUMBER:**   2014-03

**MANUAL:**
  Alaska
Food Stamp Program

**DATE:**
  September
2, 2014

This
update includes yearly changes to the income and utility standards that
take effect October 1, 2014. In addition, the verification requirements
to check IPV status and same-sex marriage definitions have both been updated
to reflect current Federal Regulations.

Other
changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the
results of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights
of these and other policy revisions are described below.  If you
have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development
Team at (907)465-3328 or email [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

**OVERVIEW
OF CHANGES**

**[MS 600-2](../../600/600-2_definitions.md)**
**Definitions**

- Updates definition of
  spouse to include same-sex spouses.

**[MS 601-4](../../601/601-4.md)** **Verification**
 

- Updates verification
  requirement to include IPV status check for new Alaska residents.

**[MS 602-1A](../../602/602-1_a.md)** **Households**

- Updates households to
  reflect same-sex marriage recognition.

**[MS 602-1B](../../602/602-1_b.md)** **Residency**

- Updates verification
  requirement to include IPV status check for new Alaska residents.

**[MS 604-3G](../../604/604-3_g.md)** **Adding
a Member to the Household**

- Updates verification
  requirement to include IPV status check for new Alaska residents.

**[MS 604-4](../../604/604-4.md#604_4_B_ADVERSE_ACTION_NOTICE)**
**Adverse Actions Requiring
Only Adequate Notice**

- Clarifies adequate notice
  for certain households.

**[MS 605-1D](../../605/605-1_d.md)** **Institutions,
Alcohol and Drug Addiction Treatment Centers**

- Updates contact information
  for approved treatment centers.

**[Addendum 4](../../Addenda/Addendum_4%2b.md)**
**Program Standards &
Maximum Allotments**

- Updates standards and max shelter deductions.
- Updates gross and net income limits.
- Updates heating and non-heating utility standards.

**[Addendum 9](../../addenda/addendum_9.md)**
**State Approved Substance
Abuse Programs**

- Updates
  facilities list to reflect current approved programs.
- Adds
  note that agencies may be umbrella agencies.