---
policy_id: "2014-02"
title: "2014-02 (06/14)"
parent: "2014"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Food Stamp Program\transmittals\2014-02_(06_14).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "600-2"
  - "602-1"
---

SNAP - Alaska SNAP Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

**STATE OF ALASKA**

**Department of Health and Social Services**

**Division of Public Assistance**

**TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:**   2014-02

**MANUAL:**   Alaska Food Stamp Program

**DATE:**   June 2, 2014

We have added examples to the exceptions to household definitions for children under the age of 18 that are homeless. In addition, we have also added an example to better clarify when an APA household is considered a simplified reporting household.

Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the results of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these and other policy revisions are described below.  If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at email: [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

**OVERVIEW OF CHANGES**

**[MS 600-2](../../600/600-2_definitions.md)****Definitions**

- Updates the definition of a child.

**[MS 602-1A (2)(c)](../../602/602-1_a.md#602_1_A_2__Exceptions_to_Household_Definitions)  Exceptions to Household Definitions**

- Adds an example clarifying when a homeless child does not need to include a family they are temporarily residing with.
- Adds an example clarifying when a homeless child does need to include a family they are residing with.

**MS 604-3B  Status Reporting**

- Adds an example clarifying when an APAAdult Public Assistance household is not a status reporting household.