---
policy_id: "2016-03"
title: "2016-03 (08/16)"
parent: "2016"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Senior Benefits\transmittals\2016-03_(08_16).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "310"
  - "310-1"
  - "330-1"
  - "340"
  - "360-1"
  - "360-3"
---

Senior Benefits Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  2016-03

MANUAL:  Senior Benefit Program

DATE:  August 1, 2016

We have updated the Senior Benefits Program manual to include reflect the most recent payment level amounts and updated what application forms are acceptable to apply for Senior Benefit Program benefits.

If you have any questions please contact the Policy and Program Development Team by e-mail at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov)

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[310](../../310__application/310_application_process.md)             APPLICATION PROCESS

- Added clients can use a GEN 50C application to apply for Senior Benefits.

[310-1 A](../../310__application/310-1_the_application_form.md#310-1_A._What_is_an_Acceptable_Application_Form).       WHAT IS AN ACCEPTABLE APPLICATION FORM

- Added GEN 50C is an acceptable application to apply for Senior Benefits.

[310-1 D.](../../310__application/310-1_the_application_form.md#310-1_D._What_is_an_Identifiable_Application)       WHAT IS AN ACCEPTABLE APPLICATION FORM

- Added GEN 50C is an acceptable application to apply for Senior Benefits.

[330-1](../../330__income/330-1_income_limits.md)        INCOME LIMITS

- Updated payment level effective August 1, 2016 to $76  for recipients whose income falls between 100% and 175% of FPLFederal Poverty Limits.

[340-1](../../340__payment/340_payment.md)        PAYMENT LEVEL

- Updated payment amount of $76 per month effective August 1, 2016 for recipients whose income falls between 100% and 175% of FPLFederal Poverty Limits.

[360-1](../../360__case_maintenance/360-1_reviews.md)        REVIEWS

- Added that a GEN 50C can be used as a renewal form for Senior Benefits.

[360-3 B](../../360__case_maintenance/360-3_suspension_and_termination.md#360-3_B._Termination).       TERMINATION

- Added that a GEN 50C can be used to reapply for Senior Benefits.