---
policy_id: "2016-02"
title: "2016-02 (04/16)"
parent: "2016"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Food Stamp Program\transmittals\2016-02_(03_16).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "601-4"
  - "604-2"
  - "605-2"
  - "605-3"
  - "607-3"
---

SNAP - Alaska SNAP Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

**STATE OF ALASKA**

**Department of Health and Social Services**

**Division of Public Assistance**

**TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:**2016-02

**MANUAL:**Alaska Food Stamp Program

**DATE:   April** 1, 2016

We have made changes to the self-employment annualization table based on changes in the Federal Poverty Guidelines ([*FPG*](javascript:TextPopup(this))*Federal Poverty Guidelines*) for Alaska. Additionally, we have clarified that SOLQ checks should be conducted at the time of application and recertification.

Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the results of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these and other policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at email: [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

**OVERVIEW OF CHANGES**

**[MS 601-4 A](../../601/601-4.md).** **Verification Requirements for Initial Applications**

- Moved SOLQ check to interfaces that must be checked.

**[MS 604-2 E](../../604/604-2.md).** **Verification Requirements: Recertification**

- Moved SOLQ check to interfaces that must be checked.

**[MS 605-2 D](../../605/605-2_d.md).** **Annualization Determination**

- Updated self-employment annualization standards with the release of the Federal Poverty Guidelines for Alaska, effective April 1, 2016.

**[MS 605-3 B](../../605/605-3_b.md).** **Verification for** **Expedited Service Applications**

- Added a note about case closure in other states.

**[MS 607-3 B](../../607/607-3.md).** **Establishing An Overpayment Claim**

- Removes “no more than” in statement for calculating claims.