---
policy_id: "2016-04"
title: "2016-04 (10/16)"
parent: "2016"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Senior Benefits\transmittals\2016-04_(10_16).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "324-1"
  - "324-2"
  - "324-4"
  - "324-5"
  - "324-6"
---

Senior Benefits Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health
and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  2016-04

MANUAL:  Senior Benefit
Program

DATE:  October 3, 2016

We have updated the Senior Benefits Program Manual with a revised and
renumbered citizenship chapter.

Highlights of these revisions are described below.  If you have
any questions please contact the Policy and Program Development Team by
e-mail at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov)

OVERVIEW OF CHANGES

[324](../../324_citizenship/u.s._citizenship_and_residency.md)
  U.S. CITIZENSHIP AND ELIGIBLE ALIEN STATUS

- Renamed
  chapter "U.S. Citizenship and Eligible Alien Status" from
  "Citizenship" to align with other policy manuals.

[324-1](../../324_citizenship/324-1_united_states_citizens_and_united_states_nationals.md)
  UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND UNITED STATES NATIONALS

- Added definitions of citizens and nationals.

[324-2](../../324_citizenship/324-1_qualified_aliens.md)
      QUALIFIED ALIENS

- Added
  definitions of a qualified alien.

[324-3](../../324_citizenship/324-2.md)
      NATIVE AMERICANS BORN OUTSIDE THE
UNITED STATES

- Renumbered
  this section.

[324-4](../../324_citizenship/324-4.md)
      FIVE-YEAR WAITING PERIOD

- Added
  this chapter to explain the five-year waiting period for aliens to
  receive Senior Benefits.

[324-5](../../324_citizenship/324-5_documentation_of_u.s._citizenship_and_eligible_alien_status.md)
      NON-QUALIFIED ALIENS

- Added
  definitions of non-qualified aliens.

[324-6](../../324_citizenship/324-6_documentation_of_u.s._citizenship_and_eligible_alien_status.md)
      DOCUMENTATION OF U.S. CITIZENSHIP
AND ELIGIBLE ALIEN STATUS

- Added
  examples of acceptable documentation to provide verification of citizenship
  status.