---
policy_id: "2011-01"
title: "2011 Edition (09/11)"
parent: "2011"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\General Relief Assistance\transmittals\2011-01.md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "240-2"
---

GRA Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

STATE OF ALASKA

Department of Health and Social Services

Division of Public Assistance

TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:  2011 Edition

MANUAL:  General Relief Assistance

DATE:  September 1, 2011

We are pleased to introduce the new and improved on-line General Relief Assistance (GRA) Manual. The most noticeable change is  the manual has been renumbered in order to be consistent with other Division policy manuals. The chapters are now numbered in the 200 series.

In an effort to make the manual easier to use, the new edition:

1. - presents information in a slightly different format,
   - expands the manual index,
   - updates examples with more current information, and
   - makes other minor technical corrections.

In addition, we have clarified the policy regarding Public Assistance recipient burials located in [MS 240-2](../../240/240-2_specialized_burial_provisions.md).  In September 2010 a clarification was sent out  removing the requirement for responsible relatives of a Public Assistance recipient to be on Public Assistance themselves in order to be eligible for GRAGeneral Relief Assistance Burial for the deceased family member.  This does not apply to family members applying for burial for someone who is not  a recipient of Public Assistance.   Eligibility Technicians should continue to examine the income and resources of responsible relatives living with the deceased in the month of application.

General Relief Assistance notices have been updated with new manual section citations and will be available in EISEligibility Information System on September 1, 2011.

If you have any policy related questions, please contact Policy and Program Development at 465-3382 or email us at [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).  For system related questions, please email Systems Operations at [EISHelp@alaska.gov.](mailto:EISHelp@alaska.gov.)