---
policy_id: "121-4"
title: "121 4 121 4 121 4 121 4 121 4 Concurrent Payments"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\121\121-4_121_4_121_4_121_4_121_4_concurrent_payments.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

121-4          CONCURRENT
PAYMENTS

Except for specific exceptions allowed by the DPADivision of Public Assistance program manuals, no person is entitled
to receive cash assistance concurrently for more than one DPADivision of Public Assistance assistance program, or concurrently
from more than one federal cash assistance program. (This does not affect
SNAPSupplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.) That is, no recipient
can be provided benefits in the same calendar month in the ATAPAlaska Temporary Assistance Program program and the SSISupplemental Security Income or APAAdult Public Assistance
cash programs.

Note:

The prohibition against concurrent payments does not apply to Interim Assistance
and the Alaska Temporary Assistance program. Temporary Assistance recipients
may receive Interim Assistance payments. However, the Interim Assistance
payment counts as income when determining eligibility and payment amounts
for Temporary Assistance.

However, he or she can be a protective
payee for more than one program, when his or her needs are being
met in only one program. For example,
a disabled parent has his or her needs met by SSISupplemental Security Income
and APAAdult Public Assistance payments, and
his or her spouse and children have their needs include in and met by
ATAPAlaska Temporary Assistance Program.

The Eligibility Technician must be careful not to
confuse the recipient (one whose needs are included in the grant) with
the person who actually receives a monthly benefit. These may not be the
same person.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](121-3_to_whom_payments_will_be_made.md) |  | [Next Section](121-5_delivery_of_payments.md) |
|  |  | [2009-01 (03/09)](../transmittals/transmittal_2009-01.md) |