---
policy_id: "109"
title: "109 109 109 109 109 109 Case Note Documentation"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\109\109_109_109_109_109_109_case_note_documentation.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

109            CASE DOCUMENTATION AND CASE NOTES

All public assistance cases must have documentation that supports eligibility, ineligibility, and benefit level determinations. The documentation must be in sufficient detail to allow a reader or reviewer to determine the reasonableness and accuracy of the determination. Documentation includes but is not limited to: applications, interfaces, and supporting documents provided by the client or someone on the client's behalf. Documentation is captured by uploading pertinent documents into ILINX, the statewide electronic document management system ([EDM](#)Electronic Document Management). Information from any source that contradicts or is absent from documentation available in ILINX will be recorded in the Case Note screen of the eligibility system ([EIS](#)Eligibility Information System, [ARIES](#)Alaska's Resource for Integrated Eligibility Services, [ECOS](#)Energy Community Online System). All data entered into the eligibility system screens must be documented either in ILINX or in the case note by recording information about each action taken, verification used, and contacts made using online case note screen on EISEligibility Information System (CANOCase Notes) or on a Report of Contact sheet (GEN 56AReport of Contact).

The CANOCase Notes screen on EISEligibility Information System allows staff to enter case specific noes. Its primary purpose is for staff to document only factual information regarding client contacts, changes in the household, and eligibility determinations. This includes:

- Actions taken and decisions made on a case relating to eligibility for public assistance programs and the reasons supporting those actions;
- Actions taken by the agency in assisting a family to become self-supporting;
- Contacts with partner agencies and contractors/grantees;
- Factors of eligibility that were verified and how they were verified;
- Contacts the agency has with the client; and
- Contacts with third party sources (collateral contacts).

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](../108/108-6_aries_correspondences.md) |  | [Next Section](109-1_methods_of_cano_documentation.md) |
|  |  | [2023-02 (09/23)](../transmittals/transmittal_2023-02.md) |