---
policy_id: "2015-04"
title: "2015-04 (09/15)"
parent: "2015"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Food Stamp Program\transmittals\2015-04_(9_15).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "602-1"
  - "602-3"
  - "605-3"
---

SNAP - Alaska SNAP Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

**STATE OF ALASKA**

**Department of Health and Social Services**

**Division of Public Assistance**

**TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:** 2015-04

**MANUAL:** Alaska Food Stamp Program

**DATE:** September 1, 2015

This update includes yearly changes to the income and utility standards that take effect October 1, 2015.

We have also made a change in interview requirements for certain expedited households has been implemented. When a household meets expedite criteria, and whose identity can be verified, they may have their interview postponed under certain circumstances.

Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the results of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these and other policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at email: [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

**OVERVIEW OF CHANGES**

**[MS 602-1A](../../602/602-1_a.md)** **Households**

- Updates “Note” to state all same-sex marriages are recognized.

**[MS 602-3D](../../602/602-3_d._exempt_income.md)** **Exempt Income**

- Adds a note that clarifies countable and exempt VISTA income.

**[MS 605-3 B](../../605/605-3_b.md)** **Expedited Service**

- Adds a (4) to include that when a household meets expedite criteria, and whose identity can be verified, they may have their interview postponed under certain circumstances.

**[Addendum 4](../../Addenda/Addendum_4%2b.md)** **Program Standards & Maximum Allotments**

·         Updates standards and max shelter deductions.

·         Updates gross and net income limits.

·         Updates heating and non-heating utility standards.

**Addendum 10** **PFD HH Notices**

·         Adds notice F117 for postponing PFD HHPermanent Fund Dividend Hold Harmelss expedite household interviews.