---
policy_id: "2015-05"
title: "2015-05 (12/15)"
parent: "2015"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Food Stamp Program\transmittals\2015-05_(12_15).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "600-2"
  - "602-1"
  - "605-3"
---

SNAP - Alaska SNAP Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

**STATE OF ALASKA**

**Department of Health and Social Services**

**Division of Public Assistance**

**TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:** 2015-05

**MANUAL:** Alaska Food Stamp Program

**DATE: December** 1, 2015

This update adds Able-Bodied Adults Without Dependents (ABAWDAble-bodied Adult Without Dependents) policy that takes effect January 1, 2016. This includes new definitions, work requirements and work exemptions, countable months, exempt and non-exempt areas, and several new examples.

Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the results of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these and other policy revisions are described below. If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at email: [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

**OVERVIEW OF CHANGES**

**[MS 600-2](../../600/600-2_definitions.md)** Definitions

- Adds definition for dependent child, countable month, and non-countable month.

**[MS 602-1F](../../602/602-1_f.md)** Work Requirements

- Adds the ABAWDAble-bodied Adult Without Dependents work requirements.

**[MS 602-1G](../../602/602-1_g.md)** Determining Requirements and Exemptions

- Adds the ABAWDAble-bodied Adult Without Dependents work exemptions.
- Adds a note to clarify comparable disqualification for Food Stamps and TANFTemporary Assistance for Needy Families.

**[MS 602-1L](../../602/602-1_l.md)** Able-Bodied Adults Without Dependents

- Adds the ABAWDAble-bodied Adult Without Dependents policy that includes countable and non-countable months, household composition, work requirements, work exemptions, time limits, and reporting requirements.
- Adds examples through out policy section.

**MS 604-3A Semi-Annual Reporting**

- Adds statement to clarify what an ABAWDAble-bodied Adult Without Dependents must report.

**[MS 605](../../605/605-3_b.md)[-](../../602/602-1_f.md)3B** Expedited Service

- Adds note to clarify how to code ABAWD status when status is unknown at time of authorization.

[Addendum 2](../../addenda/addendum_2.md) ABAWDAble-bodied Adult Without Dependents Work Requirement Exempt and Non-Exempt Areas

- Previously reserved, adds exempt and non-exempt ABAWDAble-bodied Adult Without Dependents waiver areas.

[Addendum 8](../../addenda/addendum_8.md) Communities by Census Area

- Corrects utility regions areas for Bristol Bay, Dillingham, and Lake and Peninsula census areas.