---
policy_id: "2015-01"
title: "2015-01 (01/15)"
parent: "2015"
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\alaska policy eval\Policies\Food Stamp Program\transmittals\2015-01_(01_15).md"
last_ingested: "2026-05-09"
cross_references:
  - "602-2"
  - "602-3"
---

SNAP - Alaska SNAP Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

**STATE OF ALASKA**

**Department of Health and Social Services**

**Division of Public Assistance**

**TRANSMITTAL NUMBER:**   2015-01

**MANUAL:**   Alaska Food Stamp Program

**DATE:**   January 2, 2015

This year Social Security announced a 1.7% Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) increase effective January 1, 2015. This manual change updates program policy in conjunction with the COLA increase, which affects the dollar fee limits charged for services performed as a representative payee. These fees are related to recipients of SSI and are subject to increase by the cost-of-living adjustment.

In addition, the exempt income and resource sections have been updated to reflect the settlement payments in the Cobell v. Salazar class action lawsuit

Other changes are either technical in nature or clarifications that are the results of policy questions or suggestions from the field.

Highlights of these and other policy revisions are described below.  If you have any questions, please contact the Policy and Program Development Team at (907)465-3328 or email [dpapolicy@alaska.gov](mailto:dpapolicy@alaska.gov).

**OVERVIEW OF CHANGES**

**[MS 602-2 B](../../602/602-2_b.md)** **Exempt Resources**

·         Adds a number (32) to include settlement payments from the Cobell v. Salazar class action lawsuit.

**[MS 602-3 B(2)](../../602/602-3_b.md)** **Unearned Income – SSI/SSA/VA Income**

·         Updates COLA budget for SSI/SSA/VA income. 

**[MS 602-3 D](../../602/602-3_d._exempt_income.md)** **Exempt Income**

·         Adds a number (37) to include settlement payments from the Cobell v. Salazar class action lawsuit.