---
policy_id: "111-9"
title: "111 9 111 9 111 9 111 9 111 9 111 9 111 9 Termination Of Claims"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\111\111-9_111_9_111_9_111_9_111_9_111_9_111_9_termination_of_claims.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

111-9          TERMINATION OF CLAIMS

There are few instances when a claim is terminated or closed by [BIRU](#)Benefit Issuance & Recovery Unit, which removes a client's obligation to repay a claim.

To terminate a claim upon a death of a recipient or bankruptcy, [BIRU](#)Benefit Issuance & Recovery Unit will complete the following steps:

1. Update the case in [EIS](#)Eligibility Information System OVCM using Code 98 to designate the household's claim as terminated.
2. Notify the Treasure Offset Program ([TOP](#)Treasury Offset Program) of the termination and closes the [TOP](#)Treasury Offset Program claim.
3. Close the claim as terminated (written off) within i-Sight.

111-9 A.      DEATH OF RECIPIENT

Terminating a claim reduces the balance owed to zero or all collection actions stopped. Claims will be terminated upon notification of a deceased recipient.

111-9 B.      BANKRUPTCY CLAIMS

[DPA](#)Division of Public Assistance may act behalf Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) in any bankruptcy proceeding against a household with outstanding recipient claims.

All and any collection claim activity will cease upon when [DPA](#)Division of Public Assistance receives notification that the client has filed a bankruptcy. Any amounts made after the bankruptcy filing date must be refunded back to the client.

If the bankruptcy notice does not identify [FNS](#)Food and Nutrition Service or [USDA](#)United States Department of Agriculture, then the collection activity will continue.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](111-8_fair_hearing_requested_to_dispute_a_claim_action.md) |  | [Next Section](111-10_overpaid_claims_and_refunds.md) |
|  |  | [2022-01 (04/22)](../transmittals/transmittal_2022-01.md) |