---
policy_id: "112-5"
title: "112 5 112 5 112 5 112 5 112 5 112 5 Client Conference"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\112\112-5_112_5_112_5_112_5_112_5_112_5_client_conference.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

112-5          CLIENT
CONFERENCE

The fraud investigator may conduct a conference
with the client upon completion of the post certification investigation
that results in a finding of fraud. Face-to-face conferences are held
with clients when possible. If it is impractical to hold the conference
in person, the investigator will teleconference with the client. Prior
to a teleconference, the investigator sends to the client by certified
mail and regular mail a Waiver of Administrative Disqualification Hearing
notice explaining the evidence obtained during the investigation.

The purpose of a conference is to discuss the intentional
program violation with the client and present the state's evidence obtained
in the investigation. The client is offered the opportunity to sign the
Waiver of Administrative Disqualification Hearing, accept a period of
disqualification, and establish a method for repaying any overpayment
resulting from the program violation.

If a client elects not to sign the Waiver of Administrative
Disqualification, a staff member in the Fraud Control Unit schedules a
hearing. If the client requests a hearing during a conference or in writing,
a staff member in the Fraud Control Unit schedules a date and sends the
client the Advance Notice of Your Administrative Disqualification Hearing
(TA 36, FSP 36).

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](112-4_referral_of_suspected_fraud_cases.md) |  | [Next Section](112-6_waiver_of_administrative_disqualification_hearing.md) |
|  |  |  |