---
policy_id: "105-11"
title: "105 11 105 11 105 11 105 11 105 11 105 11 105 11 Third Party Vendors"
parent: ""
source_url: "C:\Users\nabilahmed\Documents\Code\retrieve\corpus\105\105-11_105_11_105_11_105_11_105_11_105_11_105_11_third_party_vendors.md"
last_ingested: "2026-04-16"
---

Administrative Procedures Manual

[Click here to see this page in full context](#)

105-11         THIRD
PARTY VENDORS

DPADivision of Public Assistance
has a contract with Equifax (The Work Number) for obtaining employment
and income information online. Unfortunately, not all employers subscribe
to this service. Some employers utilize other third party vendors and
staff may sometimes encounter these businesses who will refer them to
another company in order to obtain employment and income verification.
When this situation occurs, staff may contact the third party vendor and
obtain the verification they need to determine the client's eligibility
for public assistance. The Authorization for Release of Information that
clients sign allows DPADivision of Public Assistance
employees to obtain the information from the third party vendor.

Note:

In checking employment and income information online, staff must first
utilize the interfaces available to them using The Work Number and Department
of Labor's database. For more information about DOLDepartment of Labor's
database, refer to [MS
123](../123/123_department_of_labor_data_system.md) and [DOL's
SAM user guide](http://dpaweb.hss.state.ak.us/node/596) on DPAweb.

Some third party vendors will require staff to sign up for the service.
If this situation occurs, staff has the option of signing up as long as
the vendor does not charge a fee. If there is a fee for the service, staff
should not use the third party vendor. Instead, staff should pend the
case and ask the client to provide the information needed to determine
eligibility.

|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Previous Section](105-10_social_security_enumeration.md) |  | [Next Section](105-12_reserved.md) |
|  |  |  |